Okay. So first, I'm just going to be asking you to do some talking. Okay. So, how do you think your speech is these days? I believe it's better, but I mostly have problems when I get excited or I want to get it out fast. I used to be very fast talking, you know, and it's hard to slow it down, you know, so much. I understand. I'm a fast talker, too. So, do you remember when you had your stroke? Well, I was asleep and I woke up with it. Oh, okay. Could you tell me about it? I woke up and sit up and it didn't feel strange or anything and I got up to go to the bathroom and I couldn't get my arm to do something and it didn't really dawn on me, you know. So, I came out and tried to make a coffee and I just couldn't make it. And I turned around and I fell and I didn't understand why I fell and I went back in the room. My granddaughter was spending the night and I decided that I needed some help, you know, and I tried to call my son, but I didn't work, you know, and my daughter came up and I called her and all I could say was, yeah, yeah, yeah, you know, that's all I could say. And then after I fell again and my daughter, I mean my granddaughter, took my phone and ran out here and called her. Her dad, you know. So, that was, you know, they got the ambulance and everything, so. That's good she was there. Yeah. Well, I think she was afraid because she come out of the bedroom and stayed back here waiting for them. You know, she didn't, yeah. How old was she? I don't know, ten? Eleven? Yeah. Oh, okay. Yeah, scary. I'm glad to hear that. It's been getting better though. That's actually the next question, I think. Yes, okay. So, I'd like to hear about your recovery and what kinds of things you've done to try and get better since your stroke. Well, the main thing is my speech, you know. Other than that, I'd say I'm fairly okay. You know, the weakness, but it's not terrible. I took therapy, you know, and I go to the gym and do water aerobics and some treadmill. And that's, you know, that's it. I don't do therapy anymore because I can't afford it, you know. I like to read, but I don't like it now. You know, I used to like to read two or three books a week, you know. Yeah, and there's a book I've had since beginning of September, and I still haven't finished it yet, you know. But I try to read out loud. And some words that I can't pronounce, I stay on them until I can pronounce them right. I wish I did better, you know, reading more, but I just, you know, I just can't. Yeah. I like it because I like what I'm reading, you know, but it's hard. Have you tried books on tape? Well, no, but used to, I didn't like books on tape. You know, my mind starts to wonder, you know. But, and that is good for me, you know. To get through it. Yeah, to read it aloud, you know, so. Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah, my mind wanders when I listen to things too. Yeah, yeah. Unless it's like a podcast while I'm driving, or I have to be doing something else. Yeah, well, I can do it while driving, you know, but I don't drive that much, so, you know. Yeah, yeah. So I'm going to ask a couple of things that also are just some more talking. Please talk as much as you can about each one, because we're really interested in knowing about your language. Okay. So thinking back, can you tell me a story about something important that happened to you in your life? It could be happy or sad, and it can be from when you were little, or it could be more recently. Okay. Well, I had my last baby in the car. Oh, wow. And I had two labor pains, and that was it. And she was delivered, you know, we were in the parking lot of a bank trying to get some money to put gas in the car. Wow. Yeah, but, you know, she was fine, you know. She was the third one, so, you know, we pretty much knew what was the deal. Yeah, better than if it was the first one. Yes, we'd all have been dead, you know. Do you have Netflix? Yes. Have you heard of Seth Meyers? Yes. He has a show or a special called Lobby Baby about his wife accidentally gave birth in their apartment lobby in New York, because it happened so fast. She started the pain, and then by the time they got to the lobby, it was time. Yeah, yeah. So it sounds similar. It's called precipitous labor, but, you know, I just had one, I had one pain, and I got everybody up and ready, and I had another pain when I reached the car, and then, you know, yeah, but then I pushed, so, yeah. Wow. How many kids do you have? Three. Oh, okay. Okay, so that was the last one. Yeah. Okay. So for this next part, I'm going to show you some pictures, and then I'm going to ask you to talk about them. Okay. So take a little bit of time to look at those pictures. They tell a story, and so if you look at all of them, then I'll ask you to tell me a story with a beginning, middle, and end, and you can look at the pictures while you tell the story. Okay. Oh, well, the boy kicks the ball. He kicked it to the window. The dad, I guess the dad, catches it and looks out the window. Yep, yep. Sorry, there's very elaborate instructions to read for these. I know that you get it a lot sooner than when I finish saying it. Okay. So same thing with this one. There's also a story, and then just tell me a beginning, middle, and end when you're ready. The mother wants him to use an umbrella, and he said, I don't need it, and when he gets outside, it's raining, and raining bad, and he comes back to his mother and said, I need an umbrella, and, you know, there's the umbrella. Esther, are you familiar with feeling that way with your kids at home? I've never not listened to you. Oh, yeah, yeah. So this is the last picture. So there's a lot going on. Look at everything that's happening, and then tell me again a story about what you see with a beginning, middle, and end if you can. Well, the dog is barking. That's why the guy is in the tree, and the cat is in the tree. I'm missing, I mean, the girl wants her cat, and the fire truck is there. I don't know if she's going to get the dog or the cat down, you know, probably both. Yep, yep, yeah. I feel like cats are stubborn. I think just waiting like this, I don't think anything's going to happen. Next, I'm going to ask you to tell a story. Have you ever heard the story of Cinderella? Yes. Okay, so I have the pictures from the story of Cinderella, and I'm going to have you look through them, and then I'll put the book away and ask you to tell me the story in your own words. Okay. So go ahead and just flip through, and you'll tell me the story after you look through them. Okay. I mean, I never remember Fairy Godmother and everything. There's always details I forget, too, until I flip through. Okay, so now tell me as much of the story of Cinderella as you can. You can use any details that you know about the story, as well as the pictures you just looked at. Okay. Cinderella was, well, her mother died. And her father kept care of her. And she needed a mother, so she got a stepmother. But she wasn't very nice. And the father died. And ever since the father died, she was real mean to Cinderella and made her do the work around the house. She had two stepsisters who were just as mean to her. One day, the palace put out an invitation to every maiden in the land to come to see if the prince was interested. And Cinderella wanted to go. So she busied herself all up with the preparations. And secretly, she made a dress. And it was time to leave. And they said, there was some things on her gown that were her sister's, like the ribbons and stuff like that. And anyway, she tore it to threads. And so the stepmother and stepsisters took off for the ball. And Cinderella cried. And suddenly, she saw a fairy godmother. And she gave, no, she didn't, no. Well, anyway, she gave her a pretty dress to wear. And she made a pumpkin into a coat. And she made field mice into footmen. And she said, be back by twelve o'clock. And Cinderella went to the ball. And she danced with the prince and everything. And it struck midnight. And she had to get away. And anyway, she got away. By the time she got back, her clothes were all gone. And the coat and all had disappeared. But only she had one slipper, a gold slipper. And anyway, the call went out that the prince was looking for someone to fit in the slipper. And the stepmother and the stepsisters were ready for it. And they came. But it didn't fit them. And anyway, Cinderella came. And she tried the slipper on. And they lived happily ever after. You had great details in there, too. I forgot. I didn't even remember the whole, that the sisters, it was their ribbons and things. That was why they said that they could. That was great. Every time I hear someone tell this, I learn more than what I previously knew. So I have one last talking thing. And then we'll go on to the language test. And this is a little different. Tell me how you would make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. Well, you start with bread. And you take the peanut butter. And you lift it out of the jar. And you spread it. And then you take the peanut butter and you lift it out. And you take the jelly. And you lift it out of the jelly. And you spread it on the other side of the bread. And you put it together. I got it. And then you enjoy it. Yes. Do your grandkids eat PB&Js? Yeah. Yeah. I always think that's funny. Because I haven't had a peanut butter and jelly since I was younger, probably. Maybe it's hospital food or something. Well, you should try it. OK. So we're done with all the talking stuff. So next, I'm going to ask you what is happening in these pictures. So first, just go ahead and tell me what's happening in that picture, just that one. He is giving her a bath. And then what's happening in the second picture? She is kicking him. Yep. I have trouble sometimes because of he and she. I get them confused. Yeah. I've noticed that a lot with a lot of people. It's very common, I would say. Yeah. I would say he and everybody would say she. And I said, I know. Who's correcting you? That's the problem here. Yeah. Is it where you know it in your head, but it doesn't come out the right way? Yes. I know. Yes. Well, I know that I'm saying it wrong. But you know. Right. Yeah. It's just hard to control. Yeah. Next, I'm just going to ask you to show me some or I'll ask you to point to the things that I said. OK. So show me the guitar. Show me the tiger. Show me the zebra. Show me the saxophone. Great. So same thing. Show me the pear. Show me the crown. Oh. And show me the cloud. Show me the chair. So now I'm going to ask you some questions that I want you to answer. Yes or no. OK. OK. So are you sitting? Yes. Am I standing? No. Do you eat ice cream with a spoon? Yes. Are spiders bitten by people? No. Do you wear gloves on your feet? No. If you're about to go outside, are you still inside? Yes. Are worms eaten by birds? Yes. If I tell you I used to exercise, do you think I exercise now? No. Are babies delivered by doctors? Yes. If you're about to start, have you started yet? No. Are parents raised by children? No. Sometimes, though. Yeah. If you were at the party when I arrived, did you get there first? Yes. So next, I'm going to show you some more pictures. OK. What is this? A book. And this? A comb. A mask. Volcano. Seahorse. Pyramid. Yeah. That was great. You're flying through these. So we're already at this portion. OK. So I'm going to have you write what these pictures are. I can't spell very well. That's OK. OK. Has that been since your stroke, or is that? Yes. No. It's been before my stroke. Before, OK. No, no. It's been after my stroke. Dammit. Yes. I think you lost your mic again. I think Greg had knocked it off. Anyway, yeah. I can spell not very well. OK. That's OK. I know it's a mushroom. I can't spell it. That's OK. Just do your best. And then what's happening in that one? So a full sentence, if you can. Yeah, that was super close. And yeah, you got those ones great. And that one, I saw you correct it at the end there. Thank you. That was great. Do you want to try writing? So next, I just want you to repeat after me. OK. Man. Man. Blanket. Blanket. Prosperity. Prosperity. Insignificant. Insignificant. I hope this one's appropriate. The dog barks at the door. The dog barks at the door. The creative architect understood who we'd be seeing. What? The creative architect understood who we'd be seeing. The creative architect understood who she would be seeing? I know that one's trickier and longer. Do some more pictures. Make sure I'm on the right page so I don't say, show me something that's not there. OK. So show me the elephant. Show me the piano. Show me the camel. Show me the trumpet. Show me the cat. Show me the box. Show me the cane. Show me the socks. OK. So some more. Yes, no questions. Am I wearing a blue shirt? Yes. This one always scares me. OK. OK. Are you wearing a green shirt? No. I always have to make sure I say that one right. It depends on the person. Do you brush your teeth with a comb? No. Are babies named by parents? No. Yes. Do you take pictures with a camera? Yes. If you're about to finish, have you finished yet? No. Are people taxed by government? Yes. If you're about to go inside, are you still outside? Yes. Are wolves attacked by deer? Yes. No. No. Almost got you. You got it. If he was at the show when you arrived, did he get there first? Yes. Are thieves robbed by victims? No. If I tell you I used to drink coffee, do you think I drink coffee now? No. That was great. I was looking back to see, because you've done these kinds of questions before, and this is even, I mean, this is fantastic. It's even more than you got the last time, and you did really well the last time. Oh, OK. Yeah. You got all of these correct. So next I'm going to have you read out loud. OK. So read those out loud when you're ready. A pig? Choir. Graduation. Involuntary. The sun sets in the rest. The capable detective discovered why I'd been waiting. OK. So next I'm going to show you some more pictures with a word, and I want you to show me the picture that matches the word in the middle. OK. So for this last part, I'm just going to ask you to do some of those motor things that I'm sure you've done in the past. OK. So could you stick your tongue out for me, and then can you move it from side to side? OK. And next I want you to say ah for as long as you can. Ah. Rosa was like, what are you doing? That was funny. So next I want you to say pah as steadily as you can, so as fast and as steady of a rhythm. OK. Pah, pah, pah, pah, pah, pah, pah, pah, pah, pah, pah, pah. That's great. Yeah. Could you try faster, but also keep it steady if you can? Pah, pah, pah, pah, pah, pah, pah, pah, pah, pah, pah, pah, pah. Great. OK. She thinks you're crazy now. I know. Who are we? So next I'm going to have you say pah. So pah first. Pah. And then tah, and then kah. Kah. And we're going to put that together and say pah-dah-kah. Oh, pah-dah-kah. OK. And then same thing. Try and say that as quickly and as steadily as you can. Pah-dah-kah, pah-dah-kah, pah-dah-kah. Pah-dah-kah, pah-dah-kah, pah-dah-kah, pah-dah-kah, pah-dah-kah. Yeah. And next, the same thing, but with the word catastrophe. Catastrophe, catastrophe, catastrophe, catastrophe. OK. And last, I just want you to count to ten. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. Great.
