 so, first i'm gonna ask you to do some talking. okay. so, how do you think your speech is these days? well, i don't, i don't think it is for my stroke, my first stroke was okay. i phrased it in, couldn't say anything, and then i went up and took therapy, speaks therapy, and i got it back. now, with the second stroke, i have some thams when i want to say something, and i can't say it. way away oh yeah i said it so i had to work on it yeah understandable so i know you're telling us a little bit earlier but i didn't get to hear most of it do you remember when you had your stroke i know you've had to talk about either oh yeah i was my first stroke. i didn't know what it was, but i knew i was feeling, you know, and i easy and stuff. and then it came on me. and on my second stroke, i figured it was... another one and so i knew some of the things i had to go to it was saying so i i think i will say the second stroke because i it was recent you know well recently then the first one and then i had it and it went to the went to a hospital the one here the it was the one that... it was... i wanted to say it. i stayed in the hospital and i went to therapy. i went to speak and... i went to speech and i went to ot and pt. i went to raise myself, learn how to behave myself. i don't know, ot. i would have some exercises to have it. so i could do my hand and stuff in pt. i don't know and how to walk again yeah, lots of different therapies, huh? yeah, but it sounds like they all were helping you a lot in on of on the first stroke i i came here to it at pr what what's the name of the i haunt the pie butter butter pie butter what is it the last fire? yeah, i had my straw my pt speaks and what is it speech ot and pc here? and i had, and it's very, very good. and i had, that's what i say, i get all the way up. and then i joined the thing that i wanted out. i joined the... you know what you know i want i knew i want to see it i join it then and i've been in there all the way and i have been in there about longer than anybody else. yeah we had a banquet and i got a little black for that with some some people had died and stuff like that. but i was still the longest one there. but other people had joined, disjointed, or had hatched more than other people. but i had more than all of them. oh wow. and so, you know, that's... i was very... i was very... proud of that. yeah, that's an honor. that's really nice they gave you a plaque for it to show for all of your commitment to it. they gave me a one. i had been in the book club longer than anybody. that's amazing. i need to join a book club myself. i need to get back into reading more. okay. i'm gonna go ahead to thinking back. can you tell me a story? about something important that has happened to you in your life. so it can be happy or sad, it can be from when you were younger or from where recently. i had my first baby, it was a girl, and i had it and i was very good good what my i thought i have it was a good mother and doing things for her it was a joy to do that and now she is forty forty five years of seven for the seven years old but i remember this, this one of the things that i hated my life. not such a little baby anymore. no! i was like that, i said, you didn't know? and then i said, i'm, i'm for, i'm, seventy, one, i guess you are that, you know? do you have other kids too? one, a boy. okay. he is uh... uh... thirty. yeah.  yeah. i'll carry that up. yeah? okay. well, next .. can you check on my creamy as well? i'm sure it's good, but i just wanted to. yeah. i don't like that i can't see it from over there. yeah, i'm sure that... do you say something else for us? oh, i think my son is forty. oh, yeah. yeah. yeah. it looks great. yeah. it looks good before i just i normally keep an eye on. yeah. thank you. yeah. thank you. yeah. so now i'm gonna show you some pictures. so first, i want you to take a look at these pictures. they tell a story. so go ahead and take a look at all of them. and then i'll ask you to tell me a story with the beginning, middle, and end. and you can look at the pictures while you tell the story. the little boy is playing soccer. and he's playing happy there. and then he said he kicked the ball and the neighbor's window broke because he kicked it to the window. and then the man was sitting in the living room. and the ball came through and he was shocked. and the lamp fell over and stuff and then he got up and he said, it's a soccer ball and he looked out the window to see who he hated. yeah, i didn't even notice the lamp falling until you told me that. you're very observant. oh, yeah. okay. so now i'm going to show you some more pictures and they also tell a story. and again, i'm going to let you look at all of them. okay. and then tell me a story with the beginning, middle, and end like you just did. okay. this little boy, our little girl, you look like a girl. but he's going to school and his mama said, take this umbrella because it looks like rain. and he said, i don't want to take that. i might lose it or something. it's not raining and as he goes to school, he started to rain and it rained and then he came back and he looked, he was all wet and his mother said, didn't i tell you to take the umbrella? he got the umbrella and they started back to school. have you ever had that happen with your kids too? really don't listen to you? no, no. if i tell them to take it, they don't want to, but they'll take it. and then they will lose it, leave it at school. yeah, the losing it sounded very specific. i figured that i'd hop into you. okay, i have one more picture for you. so there's a lot going on in this picture. go ahead and look at everything that's happening and then tell me a story about what you see and also with the beginning, middle, and end if you can. okay. all right the the look girl get a cat that up and up the cat is up in the tree and so he said please get my cat and as she was riding on her bicycle and she tried to get the cat down, but he wouldn't go. and this all, he, he, he, asked the man to get it down with the letter, but he didn't make it. he's still up in the tree and the cat is up in the tree. and so they called the fire department. and the dog is barking for the man. but then the fire department came and they got the cat out of the tree. yeah, there's a lot. and it meant in the beard. this isn't there looking. this is all he was going to do. birds like this is my tree? yeah. you're all doing it in it. okay. so for this next part, i'm going to have you tell me another story. have you heard the story of cinderella before? okay. do you remember much about it? so i'm going to show you i've got the whole picture book here, no words, and i'm going to let you look through the book and then i'm going to put the book away and have you tell me the story in your own words. okay, so go ahead and look through the pictures. okay. the front page in the story of cinderella. so for this one you can you can talk while you go through it if you would like but i'm gonna ask you to tell me the story after you look at all the pages. so this is just to help jog your memory and then i'll take it away and you can tell me just from your in your own word. okay. i believe that's the last page. double check. yeah. okay. thank you. so now tell me as much of the story of cinderella as you can. you can use any details about the story as that you know, as well as from the pictures that you just looked at. okay. is that story about cinderella? heat. he had, he, her. i mean, his daddy was a widow because his wife, dad, and he, she was very neat and pretty when she was a little girl. and then, then his mother, his daddy said, i'm going to marry this woman. she was a very treacherous woman and she wanted to marry him. so they married and she had two little girls, very, very... very ugly girls. and so then thought, oh, daddy died. and oh, she said she was gonna run the house and she didn't want cinderella to have perfect clothes. she will, she wanted her to have and then she said, i don't have a maid to run this house, so you will be the maid. and you will want to be my maid and the girls too. and then by this time they had grown up. and so she the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, the fixtures, until she lived up in the attic and when she had the animals to talk to her, the horse and the rats and the cat and things, that's all she had to talk to. in the end, telegram came. because the king wants his son to marry. so he had a ball and so he told him, look and see who you want to marry. so the two girls in the mother got some fancy clothes and everything to go to the to the ball because see she wanted one of them to marry the pants so the mother had left a dress for her and see i will i will use this this my mother's dress and now i will fix it up. and then when the mother and two girls had to get ready and dressed up and go to the ball and then the cinderella came down. i said, i want to go too. they were very, very ugly. they said, oh, you want to go? you can't go. you don't get it then. the dress she had, she pitted out. they smashed it. i didn't get it. after they had made a dress messy and torn, and they went to the bow. and then the mother of the mother put a son of a weller upstairs, i think, upstairs. she couldn't go out, and then the ferry, godmother, came and sent her where it looked, and she told her, they wouldn't let me go to the bar, and so she said, just a minute. i'll see about this. and so she got her dress, a pretty dress, and made the pumpkin and the rats and the cats. now, made them the foot stalled in the driver and saying, and so you go into the ball, but you must get back by twelve o'clock. all this fix for you will be gone. and so they all went to the ball and the center roller came. man, the old battle legs was looking and the girls were two. they said, who is that girl looking? going at the ball and looking at the pants is looking at her. and so the prince danced with her for all the night. and so she wanted to know, he wanted to know what a name is and where is she, but she didn't tell her. and then she had some pretty... shoes, they were, they were glass shoes. and so, and the, the clock was, was chiming to every clock. so she got it, got it, let go, because she said, the, the fairy godmother said, if you don't get out there by twere, you'll have all this stuff. it will go back. so she was going and running and running. and she, one of the shoes were left on the steps. and she was running and running. she was going to get out of there. prince hadter somebody that looked after him she was come come back come back we want to see what what your name is but he she ran and then after twelve they all went back the punk and the rats and all the cats and the hoists. they were all went back to what they were. and so then, the pants, i got to find that girl because he loved her and he wanted to marry her. so, they went all over the country all over and they couldn't fan the girl. and so, the old mother put her up in the attic. because they knew they was going all around for the shoe. and so, she looked there. they came around her house and said, i wanted you to look at this shoe to see if you can wear it. and the big girl, the shoe, it didn't fit. it was, it didn't fit. and the other one, she said, i was, i was spitted, but it didn't fit either. and then the and the mice were saying downstairs is depressed. so you got to get down there. and so they opened the door. and so she ran down there and said, here he is. here's the other shoe. and the mother. girl what she got away and so she she put her shoe on and the other shoe and they found it was her and so they had a big wedding and they lived happy ever after yeah. the mastery telling us in dorella, i think. you know, i was a teacher and i would tell all the kind of stories. i was gonna ask if you ever told your students. yeah. yeah, i'd be kids in there. yeah. i'm sure they loved it. oh, yeah. yeah. thank you you even reminded me of some details that i forgot okay, i have one more talking thing for you. okay, and then we're gonna do the language test okay, there's a couple more things okay, okay, so this is gonna be a little bit different. okay, i want you to tell me how you would make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. oh, okay. all right you get the peanut butter out of the cabinet and you get some bread two pieces of the bed out of the bed is in the but prepare is in the... what is it? the pair is in the... is in the... as i said, but it's not... the... the... the what? the thing that... the beds stay then and so the peanut butter and the bread that two pieces of the bread and okay, you get a piece of bread and you oh you need a knife and then you put the peanut butter out of the jaw and put it on the bed and you put another the other piece on the top of the bed. so we have two pieces of bed and a peanut butter and then you eat it. this way i think i say i say it yeah okay, so next we're gonna do this test and so for the first question i would like you to tell me what is happening in that picture just that one, okay oh, wait. he's given a bath. look at his sister. and he's given her a bubble bath. i guess that's it. his sister. oh, this is a... wife, one of the two. they are giving a bath to him. what about this picture? she is kicking her own... she is kicking him under the... i forgot the pictures were different for a second. we have a couple versions of this and i had in my head a different picture. so now i'm gonna show you some pictures and i'm gonna ask you to point to them. show me the guitar show me the tiger show me the zebra show me the saxophone  great. okay now some more of those so show me the pair show me the crown show me the cloud. and show me the chair. great. okay. now i'm gonna ask you some yes no questions. okay. so answer yes or no? yes or no? okay. are you sitting? yes. am i standing? no. do you eat ice cream with a spoon? are spiders bitten by people? no. do you wear gloves on your feet? no. if you're about to go outside, are you still inside? oh, yeah. if you go outside, you're inside, yeah. are worms eaten by birds? no, wait a minute. are worms eaten by birds? yeah. if i tell you i used to exercise, do you think i exercise now? yeah. are babies delivered by doctors? if you're about to start, have you started yet? if you're about to start, no. you're about to start. are parents raised by children? if you're at the party when i arrived, did you get there first? yeah great yeah, but that parents and children questions sometimes people say well so i'm gonna have you name some pictures now okay, so what is this a book? what about this a comb a mast evolcano. care is the babies what is that? i don't know i can i know you know him but we can move on if you would like okay, does it help you if i say a see let's see. no. no. that's okay. it's a seahorse. yeah. yeah. yeah. you really carried the bait. yeah. that's very specific and true. okay. last one of these. what is this? this is a pyramid. yeah. yeah. okay. for this piece, i'm going to have you right next to it. take your time. i know with your left hand it's harder. okay, but so just write what is that and you can just write it on that line. okay, that's a bit. i don't spell it right m u s s oh, oh, him. this is my stuff i go. okay. there's a step, step, step, step, a step, a scope. oh, i did it. no, it's a longer one. oh, boy. step up. i don't know. this is what i like and do. and then what is happening in that one? there's a girl pulling a boy in the wagon. a girl. yeah, no, no, that's not it, but it is the way it is, which way it is. yeah, you got it. yeah, does it help you when you say it out loud when you're spying? yeah also, i was just curious you were so close on this one it's i see you have from mushroom you have m you s s r o o m can you think of the letter that's missing with that one? it's okay if you can. no. what is it? you're so close. instead of the second, us, there's an h there. oh! i didn't know that. i mean, i didn't see that. yeah. that's just curious. it was so close. that's perfect. but i know what it is. it's hard to explain to you. o p e, this scope. yeah, i got that. and then it's got stethoscope. so that's the first part. great. okay. we'll go back. okay, so for this next part, i'm gonna have you repeat after me. okay. so, man. man. blanket. blanket. prosperity. prosperity. insignificant. insignificant. you got it. the dog barks at the door. the dog barks at the door. this one's a doozy. the creative architect understood who we'd be seeing. oh, lord, the creative architects understood who we should be seeing. or be? yeah, good job. okay. so... i'm gonna have you point to something for me again. okay. so, show me the elephant. show me the piano. show me the camel. show me the trumpet. great. some more of those. okay. show me the cat. show me the box. show me the cane. and show me the socks. great. okay. some more yes, no question. okay. okay. is she wearing a gray shirt? yes. i realize mine is a lot of colors. yeah. right about a little confusing. okay. are you wearing a green shirt? no. no. okay. do you brush your teeth with a comb? no. are babies named by parents? yeah. do you take pictures with a camera? oh yeah. if you're about to finish... have you finished yet? oh. no. are people taxed by government? yeah. income tax. if you're about to go inside, are you still outside? yeah. are wolves attacked by deer?  they have a way around. if he was at the show when you arrived, did he get there first? yes. are thieves robbed by victims?  no. if i tell you i used to drink coffee, do you think i drink coffee now? no. bit of a lie, right? yeah. everybody in the... i can't say it. everybody drink coffee down there. oh yeah? yeah. oh, but one, one. drinks tea and that can't tell them where what his name is but her name is but everybody else tight drinks coffee. do you drink coffee? no. i don't. that's a good habit. i shouldn't drink this as often as i do sometimes. that's grad school. i drink tea. i really like tea too. okay. so i want you to go ahead and read these out loud one at a time. oh wait. pig, choir, graduation, involuntary, the sun sets in the west. the capable detective discovered why i've been waiting. mmm. and now kind of an intrigue. yeah. so you want to know what happens next. yeah. okay. so next, i want you to show me the picture that matches the word in the middle. okay. this, the land, and this, there. it's struggling to turn today. there you go. okay. okay. okay. drum. there. well then, there. to wrap. there. speedy on those. tested my flipping skills. okay. the last part for this one is i'm going to ask you to do some things for me. okay. so first i want you to stick out your tongue and move it from side to side as fast as you can. 