 So, first I'm going to ask you to do some talking. Okay. So, how do you think your speech is these days? Well, I don't think it is. For my stroke, my first stroke was okay. At first I couldn't say anything, and then I went up and took therapy, speech therapy, and I got it back. And now, with the second stroke, I have some times when I want to say something and I can't say it. way, way away. Oh yeah, I said it. So I had to work on that. Yeah, understandable. So I know you're telling us a little bit earlier, but I didn't get to hear most of it. Do you remember when you had your stroke? I know you've had two you can talk about either. Oh yeah. My first stroke, I didn't know what it was, but I knew I was feeling uneasy and stuff, and then it came on me. And on my second stroke, I figured it was... another one. And so I knew some of the things I had to go do, it was the same. So I think I would say the second stroke because it was recent. Then the first one and and then I had it and it went to The Went to a hospital The one here the It was the one that... It was... I want to say it... I stayed in the hospital and I went to therapy. I went to speak and I went to speech and I went to OT and PT, yeah. And I went to raise myself, learn how to raise myself. In OT, I would have some exercises to have it so I could do my hand. And PT, I learned how to walk again. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Lots of different therapies, huh? Yeah. But it sounds like they all were helping you a lot. Mm-hmm. And on the first stroke, I came here, too. What's the name of the... Pie. Uh-huh, the Pi Beta, Pi Beta, what is it, the last? Phi. Phi, yeah. I had my PT, speech, and, what is it, speech, OT, and PT here. And I had, and it's very good. And I had, that's what I say, I got all the way up. And then I joined the, the, what, the thing that I, I joined the. You know what you know I want I knew I wanted to say it I joined it then and I've been in there all the way and I have been in there about longer than anybody else yeah We had a banquet and I got the little plaque for that with some Some people had died and stuff like that. But I was still the longest one there. But somebody, other people had joined, disjoined, or had more than other people. But I had more than all of them. Oh, wow. Yeah. And so, you know, that's—I was very—I was very proud of that. Yeah, that's an honor. That's really nice they gave you a plaque for it to show for all of your commitment to it. They gave me one. I had been in the book club longer than anybody. That's amazing. I need to join a book club myself. I need to get back into reading more. Okay. I'm going to go ahead to thinking back. Can you tell me a story? about something important that has happened to you in your life? So it can be happy or sad. It can be from when you were younger or from more recently. Oh, I had my first baby. It was a girl. And I had it and I was I thought I was a good mother and doing things for her, it was a joy to do that. And now she is forty-five years, seven, forty-seven years old. But I remember that's one of the things that I had in my life. Not such a little baby anymore. No. I looked at her and said, you that old? And then I said, I'm seventy-one. I guess you are that old. Do you have other kids too? One. A boy. He is thirty. Yeah. All grown up. Yeah. Okay. Well, next. Can you turn the mic for me as well? I'm sure it's good. I don't like that I can't see it from over there. Yeah, I'm sure that... Do you say something else for us? Oh, I think it's my son is forty. Oh, okay. Yeah. It looks great. It looks good before I normally keep an eye on it. Thank you. Thank you. So now I'm gonna show you some pictures. So first, I want you to take a look at these pictures. They tell a story. So go ahead and take a look at all of them. And then I'll ask you to tell me a story with the beginning, middle, and end. And you can look at the pictures while you tell the story. The little boy is playing soccer. And he's playing happy. And then he kicked the ball and the neighbor's window broke because he kicked it through the window. And then the man was sitting in the living room. And the ball came through, and he was shocked. And the lamp fell over and stuff, and then he got up and he said, it's a soccer ball, and he looked out the window to see who kicked it. Yeah. I didn't even notice the lamp falling until you told me that. You're very observant. Oh, yeah. Okay. So now I'm going to show you some more pictures. And they also tell a story. And again, I'm going to let you look at all of them. Okay. And then tell me a story with the beginning, middle, and end like you just did. Okay. This little boy or little girl, you look like a girl. But he's going to school, and his mama said, take this umbrella because it looks like rain. And he said... I don't want to take that. I might lose it or something. It's not raining. And as he goes to school, it started to rain, and it rained and rained. And then he came back, and he looked, he was all wet. And his mother said, didn't I tell you to take the umbrella? And so... He got the Amarillo and he started back to school. Yes. Have you ever had that happen with your kids too, where they don't listen to you? No, no. If I tell them to take it, they don't want to, but they'll take it. And then they will leave it at school. Yeah, the losing it sounded very specific. I figured that would happen to you before. Okay, I have one more picture for you. So there's a lot going on in this picture. Go ahead and look at everything that's happening and then tell me a story about what you see. And also with the beginning, middle, and end if you can. Okay. The girl got a cat that, the cat is up in the tree. And so he said, please get my cat. And she was riding on her tricycle. And she tried to get the cat down, but he wouldn't go. And so he asked the man to get it down with the ladder, but he didn't make it. He's still up in the tree, and the cat's up in the tree. And so they called the fire department. And the dog is barking for the man, but then the fire department came and they got the cat out of the tree. A lot of stuff, huh? Yeah, there was a lot. I didn't mention the bird. Just sitting there looking. But that's all he was going to do. Birds like, this is my tree? Yeah. You're all doing it? Uh-huh. Okay. So for this next part, I'm going to have you tell me another story. Have you heard the story of Cinderella before? Mm-hmm. Okay. So do you remember much about it? So I'm going to show you. I've got the whole picture book here. No words. And I'm going to let you look through the book. And then I'm going to put the book away and have you tell me the story in your own words. Okay. So go ahead and look through the pictures. Okay. Cinderella. This is the... the front page in the story of Cinderella. So for this one, you can talk while you go through it if you would like, but I'm going to ask you to tell me the story after you look through all the pages. So this is just to help jog your memory. And then I'll take it away, and you can tell me just in your own words. I believe that's the last page. I'll double check. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. So, now tell me as much of the story of Cinderella as you can. You can use any details about the story that you know, as well as from the pictures that you just looked at. Okay. It's a story about Cinderella. His daddy was a widow because his wife died, and she was very neat and pretty when she was a little girl. And then his mother, his daddy said, I'm going to marry this woman. She was a very treacherous woman, and she wanted to marry him. So they married, and she had two little girls, very, very... very ugly girls. And so then the daddy died, and oh, she said she was going to run the house, and she didn't want Cinderella to have pretty clothes. She wanted her to have and then she said, I don't have a maid to run this house, so you will be the maid, and you will be my maid, and the girls, too. And then by this time, they had grown up, and so she... fix the wood, the fire, and did the housework, and cooked the breakfast and stuff for them. Anything they wanted, she had to do it. And so she lived up in the attic, and when she had the animals to talk to her, the horse and the rats and the cat and things, that's all she had to talk to. And then a telegram came. because the king wants his son to marry. So he had a ball, and so he told her, look and see who will you want to marry. But so the two girls and the mother got some fancy clothes and everything to go to the ball because she wanted one of them to marry the prince. So the mother had left a dress for her and said, I will use this, my mother's dress. and I will fix it up. And then when the mother and two girls had to get ready and dressed up and go to the ball and down, Cinderella came down. I said, I want to go too. And oh, they were very, very ugly. And I said, oh, you wanted to go? You can't go. The dress she had, they pitted, she pitted, they smashed it. I didn't get that. And so. After they had made the dress messy and torn, and they went to the bow, and then the mother put Cinderella upstairs, I think, upstairs. She couldn't go out, and then the fairy godmother came, and Cinderella looked, and the mother said, she told her they wouldn't let me go to the ball, and so she said, Just a minute. I'll see about this." And so she got her a dress, a pretty dress, and made the pumpkin and the rats and the cats, now made them the footstool and the driver and thing. And so you go into the ball, but you must... get back by twelve o'clock. All this I fixed for you will be gone." And so they all went to the bar and Cinderella came and the old The old battleaxe was looking, and the girls were too. They said, who is that girl going at the ball? And look, the pants is looking at her. And so the prince danced with her for all the night. And so she wanted to know, he wanted to know what her name is and where is she, but she didn't tell him. And then she had some pretty shoes. There were glass shoes, and the clock was chiming, twelve o'clock, so that she got to let go, because she said, the fairy godmother said, if you don't get out there by twelve, you'll have all that stuff. it will go back. So she was going and running and running, and one of the shoes were left on the steps, and she was running and running, so she got to get out of there. And the prince had a... somebody that looked after him. She was, come back, come back, we want to see what your name is. But she ran. And then after twelve, all went back, the punk and the... rats and all the cats and the horse, they all went back to what they were. And so then the prince said, I got to find that girl because he loved her and he wanted to marry her. They went all over the country, all over, and they couldn't find the girl. And so the old mother put her up in the attic because they knew. They was going all around for the shoe. And so, they came around her house and said, I wanted you to look at this shoe to see if you can wear it. And the big girl, the shoe, it didn't fit. It didn't fit. And the other one, she said, I will fit it. But it didn't fit either. And then the mice. was saying, downstairs is the prince, so you got to get down there. And so they opened the door. And so she ran down there and said, here it is. Here's the other shoe and the mother. girl looked, what? She got a, and so he, she put her shoe on and the other shoe and they found it was her. And so they had a big wedding and they lived happy ever after. Yay! The best retelling of Cinderella, I think I've heard. You know, I was a teacher, and I would tell all kinds of stories. Yeah, I was going to ask if you ever told your students or your kids the stories. Yeah, the kids and everything. Yeah. Well, I'm sure they loved it when you did. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Thank you. You even reminded me of some details that I forgot. All right. Yeah. That's great. Okay. I have one more talking thing for you. Okay. And then we're going to do the language test. Okay. And then just a couple more things. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So this is going to be a little bit different. Okay. I want you to tell me how you would make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. Oh, okay. All right. you get the peanut butter out of the cabinet, and you get some bread, two pieces of bread, out of the... The bread is in the... But the bed is in the... What is it? The bed is in the... Is in the... I say sack, but that's not... The what? The thing that... The bed stayed in. And so the peanut butter and the bread, two pieces of bread, and, okay, you get a piece of bread and you, oh, you need a knife. And then you put... the peanut butter out of the jar and put it on the bed and you put another, the other piece on the top of the bed. So you have two pieces of bed and the peanut butter and then you eat it. Yeah. Okay. That's the way I think I say it. Yeah. Okay. So, next we're going to do this test. And so for the first question, I would like you to tell me what is happening in that picture. Just that one. Okay. All right. He's given a bath. Look at this. This is his sister. And he's given her a bubble bath. I guess this is his sister. wife to give one of the things one of the two yeah but they're giving giving a bath to him yeah and then what about this picture he she is kicking her on um she is kicking him on the the uh I forgot the pictures were different for a second. We have a couple versions of this, and I had in my head a different picture. You did great. You described it right. So now I'm going to show you some pictures, and I'm going to ask you to point to them when I say. Show me the guitar. Show me the tiger. Show me the zebra. Show me the saxophone. Great, okay. Now some more of those. So show me the pear. Show me the crown. Show me the cloud. And show me the chair. Great. Okay. Now I'm going to ask you some yes-no questions. Okay. So answer yes or no. Yes or no. Okay. Are you sitting? Yes. Am I standing? No. Do you eat ice cream with a spoon? Are spiders bitten by people? No. Do you wear gloves on your feet? No. If you're about to go outside, are you still inside? Oh, yeah. If you go outside, you're inside, yeah. Are worms eaten by birds? No. Wait a minute. Are worms eaten by birds? Yeah. If I tell you I used to exercise, do you think I exercise now? Yeah. Are babies delivered by doctors? Mm-hmm. If you're about to start, have you started yet? Are parents raised by children? If you were at the party when I arrived, did you get there first? Yeah. Great. Yeah, with that parents and children question, sometimes people say, well... No. So, I'm going to have you name some pictures now. Okay. So, what is this? A book. What about this? A comb. A mask. A volcano. About this. I know what it is. carries the babies. What is that? I don't know. That's okay. I know you know it. But we can move on if you would like. Okay. Does it help you if I say a... Sea. No. No. That's okay. It's a seahorse. Yeah. Yep. Yeah. You got it. You knew it. Yeah. You knew he carried the baby. Yeah. That's very specific and true. Okay. Last one of these. What is that one? That's a pyramid. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So. For this piece, I'm going to have you write next to it. Take your time. I know with your left hand it's harder. Okay. But so, just write, what is that? And you can just write it on that line. Okay. That's a bed. Yeah, and that? A mushroom. I don't spell it right. M-U-S-S. O-O-M. That's as much as I go. Okay. That's a step, step, step, step, um, a step, a scope. Oh, I did it. No, it's a longer one. Oh, boy. I don't know. This is what all I can do. Yeah. Yeah. And then what is happening in that one? There's a girl pulling a boy in a wagon. A girl. Yeah, I don't know what that is, but it is what it is. Yeah, you got it. Does it help you when you say it out loud when you're spelling? Yeah. I was just curious. You were so close on this one. I see you have, for mushroom, you have M-U-S-S-R-O-O-M. Can you think of the letter that's missing with that one? It's okay if you can't. No. What is it? You're so close. Instead of the second S, there's an H there. Oh. Yeah. I didn't know that. I mean, I didn't see that. Yeah. Oh. Yeah. I was just curious because that one was so close. That's perfect. Uh-huh. And this, but I know what it is. Uh-huh. It's hard to say, too, sometimes. O-P-E, the scope. Yeah, yeah, you got that. And then it's got stethoscope, so that's this first part. Great, okay. We'll go back. Okay, so for this next part, I'm going to have you repeat after me. Okay. So, man. Man. Blanket. Blanket. Prosperity. Prosperity. Insignificant. Insignificant. You got it. The dog barks at the door. The dog barks at the door. This one's a doozy, but it's okay. The creative architect understood who we'd be seeing. Oh, Lord. The creative architects understood who we should be seeing. Mm-hmm. Or be. Yeah. Good job. Okay. So... I'm going to have you point to some for me again. Okay. So, show me the elephant. Show me the piano. Show me the camel. Show me the trumpet. Great. Some more of those. Okay. Show me the cat. Show me the box. Show me the cane. And show me the socks. Great. Okay. Some more yes-no questions. Okay. Okay. Is she wearing a gray shirt? Yes. I realize mine is a lot of colors. Yeah. That might have been a little confusing. Okay. Are you wearing a green shirt? No. No. Okay. Do you brush your teeth with a comb? No. Are babies named by parents? Yeah. Do you take pictures with a camera? Oh, yeah. If you're about to finish, Have you finished yet? Oh. No. Are people taxed by governments? Yeah. Income tax. If you're about to go inside, are you still outside? Yeah. Are wolves attacked by deer? Mm-mm. The other way around. If he was at the show when you arrived, did he get there first? Yes. Are thieves robbed by victims? Mm-mm. If I tell you I used to drink coffee, do you think I drink coffee now? No. Bit of a lie, right? Yeah. Okay. Everybody in the, I can't say it. Everybody drink coffee down there. Oh, yeah? Yeah. Oh, but one, one. Drinks tea and I can't tell him what his name is But her name is but everybody else try to drink coffee Do you drink coffee? No I don't That's a good habit I shouldn't drink this as often as I do sometimes but that's grad school so busy time I drink tea Oh okay I really like tea too Okay So I want you to go ahead and read these out loud, just one at a time. All right. Pig. Choir. Graduation. Involuntary. The sun sets in the west. The capable detective discovered why I'd been waiting. I know, kind of an intriguing sentence. You want to know what happens next. Okay, so next I want you to show me the picture that matches the word in the middle. Okay. That's the land and that's there. I'm struggling to turn today. Okay, okay. Drum, there. Violin, there. Drift, there. Speedy on those. Tested my flipping skills. Okay. The last part for this one is I'm going to ask you to do some things for me. Okay. So first I want you to stick out your tongue and move it from side to side as fast as you can. Okay. 