 so, okay. so first, i'm just gonna be asking you to do some talking. okay. so, how do you think your speech is these days? very erratic. i'm close to ten years since a stroke and i've been more or less talking for less. seven. and at times, this tenth year i can wake up and feel fine and pronounce things very carefully. other than the times, i'm often involved somewhere about back and forth more than of those past years so anything else? yeah, sure, so do you remember when you had your stroke? yeah, could you tell me about it? it was late in december i was alone in my small house behind my front with my doors. and i suddenly went to, i'll say at this point, i'll slowly blank, but going back as far beyond this, i couldn't get a whole myself. i was in the house very cold. it's very messy and i sat there from somewhere between two and three days. my eventually my daughter came in. it's a long time though. yeah, it's very long. i couldn't move. yeah, yeah. and so, how is your recovery been since then? and what kinds of things have you done to try to get better since your stroke? i feel very... more or less blessed by my recovery because... god has been moved eventually. months later, i couldn't walk for about, i think, about four months, three or four months. but i'm going to have been doing the things i was asked to do. and i read and i write and i draw and i walk and i'm doing yoga at this point about twice a week, two or three times a week. that's awesome. i love yoga too. i love yoga too. you look very sprightly. thank you. let's see. have you had any therapies after your stroke? yeah. well, one on one therapy just sit down and not exactly. it's more or less being connected to a facial group, but occasionally for two or three months at a time, one or one, trying to overcome certain speech difficulties. okay, that makes sense. okay, so now i'm gonna ask you to do a few more things where you need to talk and please talk as much as you can about each one because we really want to know more about your language. okay, so thinking back, can you tell me a story about something important that happened to you and your life? it could be happy or sad from any time and from when you were a kid or more recently. just totally random. anything important to you? so many different things are important to me. i don't know really what to draw from, but every week is i experience them. several things that are important, really mind boggling, important. okay, currently, i think i'm very concerned about the national pollutant mood in this country. i'm working, i'm concentrating on something that i can do on a daily basis that takes the presentment of our faith. and also i'm praying and charcoing with every people. so that's very current and very important at the moment. what about something from your life as well? so something like a trip you've taken or something about your family? not too many shirts lately. i'm thinking about a great deal. i'm maybe hoping to rule tundra's california for another maybe one to two years. i'm from california. redondo beach. new, no media and powers first. right near long, redondo beach. yeah. kind of pv. okay. let's see. yeah. okay. we'll go on to some, picture discussion. okay. okay, so i'm gonna show you some pictures by the way, regina is almost almost my favorite beach really? long ago what is your favorite? it's good for this time or whatever i'll think about it. okay, so it's almost your favorite, but you have three favorites. so really it's like fourth place? what? it's second place. oh, okay. okay. i have to think about it. it's a longer growth. yeah, i'm a big fan too. okay. why? it used to be very wide. i hadn't been there for a while, so. yeah. yeah. there's, yeah, it's close to hermosa, manhattan, all those others too. i have a first cousin living on the beach in man, hermosa beach, so. oh, yeah. that's one of my favorites, hermosa. okay. so... take a little bit of time to look at these pictures with your glasses. they tell a story. so take a look at all of them, and then i'll ask you to tell me the story with a beginning, a middle, and an end, and you can look at the pictures while you tell the story. okay, one, two. boy is skating in the ball. it's going through the window. it's dropped me next to you. i'm a young, an older man who now griles his blood most out to the window. that's basic.  yeah, you got it. yeah. okay. so, here are some more pictures that tell a story. take a look at all of them, and then again, i'll ask for a story with the beginning, a middle, and an end, and you can look at the pictures to tell the story. i've been very busy lately. the young boy is... has no umbrella from the mother. he says goodbye. he goes out and starts raining. he runs back. it's all wet. the motor looks a bit... ...sculled linearly. so he takes the umbrella and he walks. she's school, i guess, and restored. yep, yep. i like that one. it's very mother knows best. okay. okay. i've got a believe one more picture for you. okay. okay. so. again, just look at everything that's happening and then tell me about a story or tell me a story about what you see and again try and make it a story with the beginning, middle, and end. and again, very basic food. little girl is trying to reach the kitty cat in the and the branches it's a bladder and a chiseled nicely her closes to the tree as a full learned looking man looking out as the dog barks up at him and the two farm are running with another letter from the fraud truck tube for his loony. put the letter up and rescue the man and it's a bird sitting above and singing to the heavens i'm very sorry. yeah, you covered everything so i was trying yeah, you were very thorough close. yeah, okay so for this next part have you heard of the stories of cinderella? yeah, okay, so do you remember much about the story? the basic so what i'm gonna do is i have the picture book okay with no words in it to let you take a look at the pictures and then i'll put the book away and have you tell me the story of cinderella in your own words? okay. so you can go ahead and look through all the pictures of the story. go look first. go look first and then tell me when you're done with all of them. bring disney esque. yeah. more like walt disney. i'm not going to remember that very well. that's okay, this is what we came. it is handwritten in to my brain, early age. all right, reach the end. i'm sorry. no, it's okay. you ready? okay. so go ahead and tell me as much of the story of cinderella as you can and just use any details you know about the story as well as the pictures you just looked at. yeah, okay. simply put. senator blair was a one really pretty and good natured and in the servitude of evil stepmother and to step daughters. really won the whole story, right? okay, i got it to keep working, but i will try. so, there's the ball and the mother and the mother and the sisters worked out about the whole thing. and i'm going to try it on the best costumes. now, samuel also worked up, but she's going to... the mother is going to order to sit in the house and clean. so, often the mother and stepters go and send her as very full arm, but all the neighborhood household careers are gathered and send her off in a fancy gown. and i think this was a good phrase to her and comes mushroom, sorry, the pumpkin to a carriage and she goes to... to the ball, and naturally he is, she is the first warden of all, and has to be the various courtiers have told her that he has to return, admit that, so. he has a great time dancing with the prince, who is totally in love with her now. but the star caught a strike. i'm sorry. twelve. she runs out the door. and at least one shoe and the haul of interest. and i guess it carries and rides home. yeah, this is the the sheriff's is carrying back into a pumpkin, and her gorillas, gown, churns, the old rags, any retrochermis to the hospital. sorry. day to day chores. this is back and forth, but the wicked stubbornness and the stubbornness try to dress up and present themselves to you. the princess emissaries, you know, but i forget all the little details but she appears and look at nick at time in the emissary puts the magic shoe on her and everything is hunky dory. that's about it. yeah, that was the most of that story. okay. yeah, that was awesome. but you haven't heard about cinderella in a while, or been asked to talk about it, yeah. again, again, i watched the whole damn thing. i'm very little. yeah. i, you know, i brainwashed. it's one of those things. yeah, it's too bad. yeah. of course. okay, go on. no, you won't do it. i'm sorry, i looked down and i didn't know. yeah, sorry. okay, so the last part for this bit, .. so we're going to do something a little bit different. i want you to tell me how you would make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. i'll get bread, i'm sorry, wheat bread and put the jelly peanut butter on the one side of the bread and hopefully apricot jelly on the end of the side together and eat it.  yeah, that sounds like a good tv and day. i like your specific apricot jelly. yes. okay. great. so, next we're going to go back to to this. so we're done with all of the talking portions. okay. so first i'm going to show you this picture and i just want you to tell me what's happening in this picture. yeah, so we're going to start with this one. here's the boys pushing the girl in this one. great. okay. so then what about this picture? what's happening? it looks happy. she looks happy and he's pursuing the girl more across the... pork or something. great. okay. okay. one next. gonna show you some pictures. so, show me the lion. show me the drum. drum. show me the violin. show me the giraffe okay next show me the bone show me the kite show me the boot and show me the goat okay, that's good yeah. okay. so next i'm gonna ask you some questions and answer yes or no. are you a man? yeah. am i a man? no. do you cut the grass with an x? no. are babies watched by baby sitters? there's times. there's times? do you open your door with a key? most of the time, yes. no. do you think i smoke now? no. are doctors treated by patients? no. if i was at the park when you arrived, did i get there first? yeah. if you're about to go upstairs, are you still downstairs? yeah. are cats chased by mice? well, no. yeah. also forget it is too funky mice. yeah, believe me as long as you neither are you are born yet, but go on tom and jerry i know tom and jerry okay, okay real life okay, no, yeah, it casts chase your mind. yeah dog. what is this? a pencil. what is this? a wheelchair. this? an octopus. this? hammock or swan. what about that? an escalator. great. okay. so for this next part, i'm going to have you write. so go ahead and write what that is on this line here. great, and then that one. and then that one. it's kinda weird looking at it. okay, and then what is happening in that one? great. okay. thank you. okay. next. okay. so next i'm going to have you repeat after me. house. house. i'm sorry. house. oh, house. that's not good. i'm sorry. sorry, sorry. house. yes. okay. breakfast. breakfast. catastrophe. catastrophe. undetectable. undetable wool. the sun rises in the east. the sun rises in the east. this one's long. the ambitious journalist discovered where we'd be going. the ambitious journalist discovered where we're going. okay, so show me the guitar show me the tiger show me the zebra show me the saxophone go ahead and show me the pair show me the crown crown show me the cloud show me the chair wait, okay, now i'm gonna ask you some more yes or no questions okay, are you sitting right now? yeah am i standing? no do you eat ice cream with a spoon? yeah are spiders bitten by people? no. do you wear gloves on your feet? no. if you're about to go outside, are you still inside? yeah. are worms eaten by birds? i'm sorry. are worms eaten by birds? yeah. if i tell you i used to exercise, do you think i exercise now? no. are babies delivered by doctors? yeah. if you're about to start, have you started yet? no. are parents raised by children? i'm tired. i'm sorry. no. we hear that sometimes. the more i go on, the less i can convince. yeah, i think the education can go both ways. if you were at the party when i arrived, did you get there first? if i'm at the party when you arrive. i'm got learned first, yes. great job. okay. so for this next part, i'm going to have you read some words out loud. so go ahead and just start with that one. ten, don't proper position in experience. the big cries at the night. the popular novelist realized why i've been calling. okay, so next i want you to show me the picture that matches the word in the middle. that concludes, oh, okay. that concludes all the pictures and words. okay. so for this last part, i want you to stick out your tongue and move it side to side as fast as you can.