 so first i'm just gonna be asking you to do some talking. okay. so how do you think your speech is these days? very erratic. i'm close to ten years since the stroke and i've been more or less talking for the last at times this time of year i can wake up and feel fine and pronounce things very carefully. other times i'm off in the fall somewhere about back and forth more than of those past years so anything else? yeah sure so do you remember when you had your stroke? yeah. could you tell me about it? as late in december i was alone in my small house behind my front of my doors and i suddenly went to i'll say at this point i'll say blank but going back as far beyond this i couldn't get a hold of myself and i was in the house was very cold, it was very messy and i sat there for somewhere between two and three days. wow. eventually my daughter came in. it's a long time though. yeah, it was very long. i couldn't move. yeah, yeah. and so how has your recovery been since then and what kinds of things have you done to try to get better since your stroke? i feel very more or less blessed by my recovery because i'm got up and moved eventually months later i couldn't walk for about i think about four months three or four months but i'm gonna have been doing the things i was asked to do and and i read and i write and i draw and i walk and i deal and i'm doing yoga at this point about twice a week, two or three times a week. oh wow. that's awesome. i love yoga too. i love yoga too. oh yeah, okay. you look very sprightly. thank you. let's see. have you had any therapies after your stroke? yeah, well, one on one therapy. just sit down and not exactly. more or less being connected to a facial of an group but occasionally for two or three months at a time one on one trying to overcome certain speech difficulties so okay, that makes sense. okay, so now i'm going to ask you to do a few more things where you need to talk, and please talk as much as you can about each one, because we really want to know more about your language. okay. so thinking back, can you tell me a story about something important that happened to you in your life? it could be happy or sad from any time, from when you were a kid or more recently. just totally at random? okay. anything important to you? so many different things are important to me. i don't know really what to draw from, but every week is, i experience them. several things that are important really mind bogglingly important so now okay currently i think i'm very concerned about the national political mood in this country and i'm working, i'm concentrated on something that i can do on a daily basis that takes the present out of us. and also i'm praying. talking with every people about it. so that's very current and very important at the moment. so yeah. yeah. yeah. what about something from your life as well? so something like a trip you've taken or something about your family? not too many trips lately. i've been thinking about it a great deal. maybe hoping to return to california for another maybe one to two years. i'm from california. where? redondo beach. you know media and power stories right near redondo beach. yeah, i know pv. okay. let's see. okay, we'll go on to some picture descriptions. okay, so i'm gonna show you some pictures. by the way, regina is almost my favorite beach. really? long ago. what is your favorite? it's a deer for this tide. i'll think about it. okay. so it's... almost your favorite, but you have three favorites. so really it's like fourth place. well, it's second place. oh, okay. i have to think about it. it's long ago. yeah, i'm a big fan too. okay. wide. it used to be very wide. i hadn't been there for a while. yeah. there's yeah it's close to hermosa, manhattan, all those others too. i have a first cousin living on the beach in hermosa beach. oh yeah that's one of my favorites is hermosa. okay so take a little bit of time to look at these pictures with your glasses. they tell a story. so take a look at all of them, and then i'll ask you to tell me the story with a beginning, a middle, and an end. and you can look at the pictures while you tell the story. okay. boy is kicking the ball, is going through the window, is dropping a mess to a young, an older man who grabs the load and lets out through the window. that's basic. yeah, you got it. yeah. okay. so, here are some more pictures that tell a story. take a look at all of them and then again i'll ask for a story with a beginning, a middle, and an end. and you can look at the pictures to tell the story. i've been very basically the young boy is has no umbrella from the mother. he says goodbye, goes out and starts raining. he runs back. it's all wet. the mother looks at him a bit scoldingly, so he takes the umbrella and he walks. to school, i guess. and restored. yep, yep. i like that one. it's very mother knows best. okay. okay. i've got, i believe, one more picture for you. okay. okay. so... again, just look at everything that's happening and then tell me about a story or tell me a story about what you see. and again, try and make it a story with the beginning, middle, and end. okay. okay. the little girl is trying to reach the kitty cat in the branches. there's a letter and a child next to her. closer to the tree. as a forlorn looking man looking out as the dog barks up at him and the two farm women are running with another letter from the fried truck to put the letter up and write to the man and it's a bird sitting of open singing to heavens i'm just sorry. yeah, you covered everything so i was trying. yeah, you were very thorough. close. yeah. okay. so for this next part, have you heard of the story of cinderella? yeah. okay. so do you remember much about the story? the basics. basics. yeah, yeah. so what i'm going to do is i have the picture book. okay. with no words in it to let you take a look at the pictures, and then i'll put the book away. have you tell me the story of cinderella in your own words? okay, so you can go ahead and look through all the pictures of the story go look first how look first and then tell me when you're done with all of them very disney esque. yeah. it's more like walt disney. i'm not going to remember that very well. it was hammered into my brain at early age. alright, you've reached the end. i'm sorry. no, it's okay. you ready? okay. so, go ahead and tell me as much of the story of cinderella as you can, and just use any details you know about the story as well as the pictures you just looked at. okay. simply put, sandra blair was a one really pretty and good natured and in the servitude of evil stepmother and two stepdaughters, stepsisters. you really want the whole story, right? okay. i've got to keep awake, but i'll try. so, there's the ball. and the mother and the sisters are very worked up about the whole thing. and going to try on the best costumes. now, cinderella has also woke up, but she is going to, the mother is going to order to sit in the house and clean. so off the mother and step dances go and send her off. it's very forlorn, but all the neighborhood household careers are gathered and send her off in a fancy gown. and i think this was to her, a good fray appears to her and comes a mushroom, sorry, pumping into a carriage. and off she goes to... to the ball and naturally he is she is the first warden of all and has to be the various couriers have told her that he has to return at midnight so she has a great time dancing with the prince who is totally in love with her now. but the cock strikes ten, sorry, twelve and she runs out the door. and at least one shoe in the hall of the entrance. and he gets a carriage and rides home. this is the carriage is turning back into a pumpkin and her gourd is a gown currency old rags and he returns to the to the hospital so sorry the day to day chores and there's a back and forth but the wicked stepmother and the step sisters try to dress up and present themselves to the the princess emissaries. but i forget all the little details, but she appears and the look at nick at time and the emissary puts the magic shoe on her. everything is hunky dory. that's about it. yeah, yeah, that was, i would say, most of that story. okay. yeah, that was awesome. bet you haven't heard about cinderella in a while, or been asked to talk about it. yeah. again, again and again i watched the whole damn thing. i'm very low. yeah. you know, i brain forever. it's one of those things, i think. yeah, it's too bad. yeah. of course, okay, go on. no, you can keep going. yeah. i'm sorry, i looked down and i didn't see. i'm sorry. okay, so the last part for this bit. so we're going to do something a little bit different. i want you to tell me how you would make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. i get bread, i'm sorry, wheat bread. and put the jelly, peanut butter on the one side of the bread and hopefully apricot jelly on the other side together and eat it. yeah, that sounds like a good pb&j. i like your specific apricot jelly. yes. okay. great. so next we're going to go back to this. so we're done with all of the talking portion. okay. so first i'm going to show you this picture and i just want you to tell me what's happening in this picture. the two pictures? yeah, so we're going to start with this one. is the boy is pushing the girl in the swing. great, okay. so then what about this picture? what's happening? he looks happy, she looks happy and he's pursuing the girl boy across the park or something? okay so next i'm gonna show you some pictures so show me the lion show me the drum drum show me the violin show me the giraffe. okay. next. show me the bone. show me the kite. show me the boot. and show me the goat. okay. nice shot. yeah. okay. so next i'm going to ask you some questions and answer yes or no. are you a man? yeah. am i a man? no. do you cut the grass with an axe? no. are babies watched by babysitters? there's times. there's times? okay. do you open your door with a key? most of the time, yes. if you're about to leave, have you left yet? no. are witnesses questioned by police? yeah. if i tell you i used to smoke, do you think i smoke now? no. are doctors treated by patients? no. if i was at the park when you arrived, did i get there first? yeah. if you're about to go upstairs, are you still downstairs? yeah. are cats chased by mice? well, no. yeah. although, forget it. some spunky mice, yeah. believe me, as long as you, neither are you are born yet, but go on. tom and jerry? i know tom and jerry. no, forget it. okay. real life, forget it. okay. no, the cats chase their mice. yeah. dog. what is this? pencil. what is this? a wheelchair. and this? an octopus. and this? hammock or swing. what about that? an escalator. great. okay. so for this next part, i'm going to have you write. so go ahead and write what that is on this line here. great. and then that one. and then that one. wow. it's kind of weird looking, isn't it? okay, and then what is happening in that one? great, okay. thank you. okay. next. okay. so next i'm gonna have you repeat after me. house. house. i'm sorry. house. oh, house. that's my fault. okay, i'm sorry. sorry, sorry. house. yes, okay. breakfast. catastrophe. undetectable. the sun rises in the east. the sun rises in the east. this one's long. the ambitious journalist discovered where we'd be going. the ambitious journalist discovered where we're going. okay, so show me the guitar. show me the tiger. show me the zebra. show me the saxophone. okay. and then go ahead and show me the pear. show me the crown. crown. show me the cloud. show me the chair. great. okay. now i'm going to ask you some more yes or no questions. okay. are you sitting right now? yeah. am i standing? no. do you eat ice cream with a spoon? yeah. are spiders bitten by people? no. do you wear gloves on your feet? no. if you're about to go outside, are you still inside? yeah. are worms eaten by birds? i'm sorry. that's okay. are worms eaten by birds? yeah. if i tell you i used to exercise, do you think i exercise now? no. are babies delivered by doctors? yeah. if you're about to start, have you started yet? no. are parents raised by children? i don't know. i'm sorry. no. no, we hear that sometimes for sure. the more i go on, the less i can convince. yeah, i think the education can go both ways. it is. i think, yeah. okay. if you were at the party when i arrived, did you get there first? if i'm at the party when you arrive. i got there first, yes. great job. okay. so for this next part, i'm going to have you read some words out loud. so go ahead and just start with that one. ten. no proposition. inexperienced. the bigger cries of the night. the popular novelist realized why i've been calling. great. okay. so next i want you to show me the picture that matches the word in the middle. that concludes, oh, okay. that concludes all the pictures and words. okay. so for this last part, i want you to stick out your tongue and move it side to side as fast as you can.