 So first I'm just gonna be asking you to do some talking. Okay. So how do you think your speech is these days? Very erratic. I'm close to 10 years since the stroke and I've been more or less talking for the last 7. At times this time of year I can wake up and feel fine and pronounce things very carefully. Other times, I'm off in the fall somewhere, about back and forth, more than others past years. So, anything else? Yeah sure, so do you remember when you had your stroke? Yeah. Could you tell me about it? As late in December I was alone in my small house behind my, in front of my doors. And I suddenly went to, I'll say at this point, I'll say blank, but going back is far beyond this. I couldn't get a hold of myself. and I was in the house was very cold it's very messy and I sat there from somewhere between two and three days. Wow. Yeah. Okay. Eventually my daughter came in. so yeah it was really long I couldn't move yeah yeah and so how is your recovery been since then and what kinds of things have you done to try to get better since your stroke I feel very on more or less blessed by my recovery because I got up and moved eventually. Months later I couldn't walk for about I think about four months, three or four months, but I have been doing the things I was asked to do and I read and I write and I draw and I walk and deal and I'm doing yoga at this point about twice a week two or three times a week. That's awesome. I love yoga too. I love yoga too. You look very sprightly. Thank you. Have you had any therapies after your stroke? Yeah, well, one-on-one therapy, just sit down and not exactly, it's more or less being connected to a facial of a group, but occasionally for two or three months at a time, one-on-one, trying to overcome certain speech difficulties. so okay that makes sense okay so now i'm gonna ask you to do a few more things where you need to talk and please talk as much as you can about each one because we really want to know more about your language okay uh so thinking back can you tell me a story about something important that happened to you in your life it could be happy or sad from any time and from when you were a kid or more recently just totally at random okay and anything important to you so many different things are important to me i don't know really what to draw from but uh um every week is uh i I experienced several things that are important, really mind-bogglingly important. So, okay, currently I think I'm very concerned about the national political mood in this country. And I'm working, I'm concentrated on something that I can do on a daily basis that takes the present out of us. And also I'm praying and talking with every people about it. So that's very current and very important at the moment. so yeah yeah yeah um what about something from your life as well so something like a trip you've taken or something about your family uh not too many trips lately i've been thinking about a great deal I'm maybe hoping to return to California for another maybe one to two years. Thanks. I'm from California. Where? Redondo Beach. Um, you know media and power stories right near Long Road down the beach. Yeah. I know PV. Oh, that's awesome. Okay. Um, let's see. Um, yeah. Okay. We'll go on to some picture descriptions. Okay. Okay, we'll go on to some picture descriptions. Okay. Okay, so I'm going to show you some pictures. By the way, Regina is almost my favorite beach. Really? Long ago. What is your favorite? It's a dear for this Todd. I'll think about it. Okay, so it's almost your favorite but you have three favorites. So really it's like fourth place? Well, it's second place. Oh, okay. I have to think about it. It's long ago. Yeah, I'm a big fan too. Okay. Why? It used to be very wide. I hadn't been there for a while, so. Yeah. Yeah. There's, um, yeah, it's close to Hermosa, Manhattan, all those others too. I have a first cousin living on the beach in Man, Hermosa Beach, so. Oh yeah, that's one of my favorites, the Samosa. Okay, so take a little bit of time to look at these pictures with your glasses. They tell a story, so take a look at all of them, and then I'll ask you to tell me the story with a beginning, a middle, and an end. And you can look at the pictures while you tell the story. Okay, well the boy is kicking the ball, it's going through the window, it's dropping next to a young older man who grabs the load and lets out to the window. That's basic. Yeah, you got it. Yeah. Okay. Alright. So, here are some more pictures that tell a story. Take a look at all of them and then again I'll ask for a story with a beginning, a middle, and an end and you can look at the pictures to tell the story. I've been very basically the young boy has no umbrella from the mother. He says goodbye, goes out and starts raining. He runs back. It's all wet, the mother looks at it a bit scoling-ly, so he takes the bread and walks to school, I guess. End of story. Yep, yep. I like that one. very mother knows best. Okay. Okay. I've got, I believe, one more picture for you. Okay. Okay. So, again, just look at everything that's happening and then tell me about a story, or tell me a story about what you see. And again, try and make it a story with a beginning, middle, and end. Again, very basically, the little girl is trying to reach the kitty cat in the branches. is a letter and a shy kill next to her. Closer to the tree is a forlorn looking man looking out as the dog barks up at him and the two farm are running with another letter from the fire truck to Prisloony put the letter up and rescued the man and it's a birds sitting and singing to the heavens. I'm really sorry. Yeah you covered everything. I was trying. Yeah you were very thorough. Close. Yeah okay so for this next part Have you heard of the stories of Cinderella? Yeah. Okay. So, do you remember much about the story? The basics. Basics. Yeah, yeah. So, what I'm going to do is I have the picture book. Okay. With no words in it to let you take a look at the pictures. And then I'll put the book away and have you tell me the story of Cinderella in your own words. Okay. So you can go ahead and look through all the pictures of the story. Go look first? Uh-huh, look first and then tell me when you're done with all of them. Oh. Very Disney-esque. Yeah. It's more like Walt Disney. I'm not going to remember that very well. It was hammered into my brain at early age. All right, we've reached the end. I'm sorry. No, it's okay. Are you ready? Okay. So go ahead and tell me as much of the story of Cinderella as you can, and just use any details you know about the story as well as the pictures you just looked at. Okay. Simply put, Sandra Blair was a womanly, pretty, and good-natured, and in the servitude of evil stepmother and two stepdaughters, stepsisters. And I really want the whole story right. Okay, I've got to keep awake, but I'll try. So, there's the ball and the mother and the mother and the sisters are very worked up about the whole thing and going to try on the best costumes. And Sandra also woke up, but she is going to, the mother is going to order to sit in the house and clean. So off the mother and step-dads go, and Senator is very forlorn, but all the neighborhood household careers are gathered, and send her off in a fancy gown and I think it's a, what's the word, a good fray appears her and comes the pump into a carriage and off she goes to the ball and naturally she She is the fairest warden of all and has to be, the various couriers have told her that has to return at midnight. So he has a great time dancing with the prince who is totally in the hope of her now. But the cock strikes ten, sorry, twelve and she runs out the door and at least one shoe in the entrance. When he gets a carriage and rides home, this carriage is turning back into a pumpkin. Her gauze gown turns the old rags and she returns to the hospital. the day-to-day chores. There's a back and forth, but the wicked stepmother and the step-sisters try to dress up and present themselves to the princess emissaries. But I forget all the little details, but she appears and the look at Nick at time and the The emissary puts the magic shoe on her and everything is hunky dory. Yep. That's about it. Yeah, yeah, that was, I would say, most of that story. Okay. Yeah, that was awesome. Bet you haven't heard about Cinderella in a while or been asked to talk about it. Yeah. Again, again and again I watched the whole damn thing. I'm very low. Yeah. You know I brain prayer. One of those things. Yeah. Too bad. Yeah. Of course. Okay. Go on. No, you can keep going. Yeah. I'm sorry. I looked down. I'm sorry. Okay. so the last part for this bit and so we're gonna do something a little bit different I want you to tell me how you would make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich I'll get bread I'm sorry wheat bread well and put the jelly peanut butter on the one side of the bread and hopefully apricot jelly on the other side together and eat it. Yeah, that sounds like a good PB&J. I like your specific apricot jelly. Yes. Okay, great. So next we're gonna go back to this. So we're done with all of the talking portion. Okay. So, first, I'm going to show you this picture. And I just want you to tell me what's happening in this picture. The two pictures? Yeah, so we're going to start with this one. Here's the boy pushing the girl in this one. mm-hmm great okay so then what about this picture what's happening you looks to have she looks happy and he's pursuing the girl boy across the park or something Okay. So next, I'm going to show you some pictures. So, show me the lion. Show me the drum. Drum. Show me the violin. Show me the giraffe. Okay. Next, show me the bone. Show Show me the kite. Show me the boot. And show me the goat. Okay. That's good. Yeah. Okay. So next I'm going to ask you some questions and answer yes or no. Are you a man? Yeah. Am I a man? No. Do you cut the grass with an axe? No. Are babies watched by babysitters? There's times. There's times? Okay, do you open your door with a key? Um, most of the time, yes. If you're about to leave, have you left yet? No. Are witnesses questioned by police? Yeah. If I tell you I used to smoke, do you think I smoke now? No. Are doctors treated by patients? No. If I was at the park when you arrived, did I get there first? Yeah. If you're about to go upstairs, are you still downstairs? Yeah. Are cats chased by mice? Well, no. Yeah. Although, forget it. Spunky mice, yeah. Believe me, it's long ago. Neither are you who are born yet, but go on. Tom and Jerry? I know Tom and Jerry. Forget it. Okay. Real life. Forget it. Okay. No, the cats chase their mice. Yeah. Okay. What is this? Dog. What is this? Pencil. What is that? A wheelchair. An octopus. A hammock or swing. What about that? An escalator. Great. OK. So for this next part, I'm going to have you write. So go ahead and write what that is on this line here. Great, and then that one. And then that one. Wow. It's kind of weird looking, I know. Okay, and then what is happening in that one? Great, okay. Thank you. Okay. Next. Okay. So next I'm going to have you repeat after me house house I'm sorry house Oh house okay sorry sorry house yes okay Breakfast. Breakfast. Catastrophe. Catastrophe. Undetectable. Undetectable. Undetectable. The sun rises in the east. The sun rises in the east. This one's long. The ambitious journalist discovered where we'd be going. The ambitious journalist discovered where we're going. Great. Okay. So. Okay, so show me the guitar. Show me the tiger. Show me the zebra. Show me the saxophone. Okay. And then go ahead and show me the pear. Show me the crown. Crown. Crown. Show me the cloud. Show me the chair. Great. Okay. Now I'm going to ask you some more yes or no questions. Okay. Are you sitting right now? Yeah. Am I standing? No. Do you eat ice cream with a spoon? Yeah. Are spiders bitten by people? No. Do you wear gloves on your feet? No. If you're about to go outside, are you still inside? Yeah. Are worms eaten by birds? I'm sorry. That's okay. Are worms eaten by birds? Yeah. If I tell you I used to exercise, do you think I exercise now? No. Are babies delivered by doctors? Yeah. If you're about to start, have you started yet? No. Are parents raised by children? I can't. I'm sorry no the more I go on the less I can convince yeah I I think the education can go both ways if you were at the party when I arrived did you get there first? If I'm on the party when you arrive, I'm got there first, yes. Great job. Okay. So for this next part I'm gonna have you read some words out loud. So go ahead and just start with that one. Ten, no proposition, inexperience, the bigger cries and the night, the popular novelist realized why I've been calling. Okay so So next I want you to show me the picture that matches the word in the middle. Mm-hmm. Yep. All right. That concludes, oh, okay. That concludes all the pictures and words. Okay. So for this last part, I want you to stick out your tongue and move it side to side as fast as you can. 