 So first I'm just going to be asking you to do some talking. Okay. So how do you think your speech is these days? Very erratic. I'm close to ten years since the stroke and I've been more or less talking for the last At times this time of year I can wake up and feel fine and pronounce things very carefully. Other times I'm off in the fall somewhere about Back and forth. More than of those past years. So, anything else? Yeah, sure. So, do you remember when you had your stroke? Yeah. Could you tell me about it? It was late in December. I was alone in my small house. behind my, in front of my doors. And I suddenly went, I'll say at this point, I'll say blank, but going back as far beyond this, I couldn't get ahold of myself. I was in the house. It was very cold. It was very messy. And I sat there for somewhere between two and three days. Wow. Yeah. Okay. Eventually my daughter came in. it's a long time though yeah it was very long i couldn't move yeah yeah and so how has your uh recovery been since then and what kinds of things have you done to try to get better since your stroke um i feel very um more or less blessed by my recovery because uh got up and moved eventually months later I couldn't walk for about I think about four months three or four months but I have been doing the things I was asked to do and And I read and I write and I draw and I walk a deal and I'm doing yoga at this point about twice a week, two or three times a week. Oh, wow. That's awesome. I love yoga, too. I love yoga, too. Oh, yeah, okay. You look very sprightly. Thank you. So let's see. Have you had any therapies after your stroke? Yeah. Well, one-on-one therapy. Just sit down and not exactly. It's more or less being connected to a group, but occasionally for two or three months at a time, one-on-one, trying to overcome certain speech difficulties. Okay, that makes sense. Okay, so now I'm going to ask you to do a few more things where you need to talk and please talk as much as you can about each one because we really want to know more about your language. So thinking back, can you tell me a story about something important that happened to you in your life? It could be happy or sad from any time and from when you were a kid or more recently. just totally at random okay anything important to you so many different things are important to me I don't know really what to draw from but every week is I experienced Several things that are important, really mind-bogglingly important. Okay, currently I think I'm very concerned about the national political mood in this country. I'm working, I'm concentrated on something that I can do on a daily basis that takes the present out of us. And also I'm praying. talking with every people about it. So that's very current and very important at the moment. Yeah. Yeah. What about something from your life as well? So something like a trip you've taken or something about your family? Not too many trips lately. I've been thinking about it a great deal. Maybe hoping to return to California for another maybe one to two years. I'm from California. Where? Redondo Beach. You know media and power stories right near Redondo Beach. Yeah, I know PV. Okay. Let's see. Okay, we'll go on to some picture descriptions. Okay. Okay, so I'm going to show you some pictures. By the way, Regina is almost my favorite beach. Really? Long ago. What is your favorite? It's a deer for this tide. I'll think about it. Okay. Almost your favorite, but you have three favorites. So really it's like fourth place. Well, it's second place. Oh, okay. I have to think about it. It's long ago. Yeah, I'm a big fan too. Okay. Wide. It used to be very wide. I hadn't been there for a while. Yeah. Yeah, it's close to Hermosa, Manhattan, all those others too. I have a first cousin living on the beach in Hermosa Beach. Oh, yeah, that's one of my favorites is Hermosa. Okay, so... Okay, well... Boy is kicking the ball. It's going through the window. It's dropping next to a young, older man who grabs the ball and lets it out through the window. That's basic. Yeah, you got it. Yeah, okay. So, here are some more pictures that tell a story. Take a look at all of them, and then again I'll ask for a story with a beginning, a middle, and an end, and you can look at the pictures to tell the story. He has no umbrella from the mother. He says goodbye, goes out and starts raining. He runs back. It's all wet. The mother looks at him a bit scoldingly. So he takes the umbrella and he walks. to school, I guess. And restored. Yep, yep. I like that one. It's very mother knows best. Okay. Okay. I've got, I believe, one more picture for you. Okay. Okay. So... Again, just look at everything that's happening, and then tell me about a story, or tell me a story about what you see. And again, try and make it a story with a beginning, middle, and end. Again, very basically. The little girl is trying to reach the kitty cat in the branches. There's a letter and a child next to her. Closer to the tree. as a forlorn-looking man looking out as the dog barks up at him and the two firemen are running with another letter from the fired truck to put the letter up and write to the man and It's a bird sitting of open singing to heavens I'm just sorry. Yeah, you covered everything so I was trying. Yeah, you were very thorough. Close. Yeah. Okay. So for this next part, have you heard of the story of Cinderella? Yeah. Okay. So do you remember much about the story? The basics. Basics. Yeah, yeah. So what I'm going to do is I have the picture book. Okay. With no words in it to let you take a look at the pictures. And then I'll put the book away. and have you tell me the story of cinderella in your own words okay so you can go ahead and look through all the pictures of the story go look first aha look first and then tell me when you're done with all of them oh Very Disney-esque. Yeah. It's more like Walt Disney. I'm not going to remember that very well. It was hammered into my brain at early age. reach the end. I'm sorry. No, it's okay. You ready? Okay. So go ahead and tell me as much of the story of Cinderella as you can and just use any details you know about the story as well as the pictures you just looked at. Okay. Simply put, Sandra Blair was alarmingly pretty and good-natured and in the servitude of an evil stepmother and two stepdaughters, stepsisters. You really want the whole story, right? Okay. I've got to keep awake, but I'll try. So, there's the ball. And the mother and the sisters are very worked up about the whole thing. and going to try on the best costumes. Now, Cinderella also woke up, but she is going to, the mother is going to order to sit in the house and clean. So off the mother stepped as this go and send her as very forlorn, but all the neighborhood household careers are gathered and send her off in a fancy gown. And I think this was to her, a good fray appears to her, and comes a mushroom, sorry, pumping into a carriage. And off she goes to... to the ball and uh naturally he is she is the first warden of all and uh has to be the various couriers have told her that he has to return at midnight so She has a great time dancing with the prince who is totally in love with her now. But the cock strikes twelve and she runs out the door. and at least one shoe in the entrance. And he gets in the carriage and rides home. This is the carriage that came back into um a pumpkin and her gorgeous gown turns the old rags and he returns to the to the hospital um so sorry the um day-to-day chores and there's a back and forth but the wicked stepmother and the step sisters try to dress up and present themselves to the The princess emissaries, but I forget all the little details, but she appears as a look at Nick at time, and the emissary puts the magic shoe on her. And everything is hunky-dory. Yep. That's about it. Yeah, yeah. That was, I would say, most of that story. Okay. Yeah, that was awesome. Bet you haven't heard about Cinderella in a while, or been asked to talk about it. Again, again and again, I watched the whole damn thing. Uh-huh. I'm very low. Yeah. It's in my brain forever. It's one of those things, I think. Yeah, it's too good. Yeah. Of course, okay, go on. No, you can keep going. Yeah. I'm sorry, I looked down and I didn't see. I'm sorry. Okay, so the last part for this bit, so we're going to do something a little bit different. i want you to tell me how you would make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich i get bread i'm sorry wheat bread and put the jelly peanut butter on the one side of the bread and hopefully apricot jelly on the other side together and eat it. Mm-hmm. Yeah, that sounds like a good PB&J. I like your specific apricot jelly. Yes. Okay. Great. So next we're going to go back to this. So we're done with all of the talking portion. Okay. So... First... I'm gonna show you this picture. And I just want you to tell me what's happening in this picture. The two pictures. Yeah, so we're going to start with this one. The boy is pushing the girl in the swing. Mm-hmm. Great. Okay. So then what about this picture? What's happening? She looks happy, and he's pursuing the girl, boy, across the... park or something. Great. Okay. Okay. So next, I'm going to show you some pictures. So, show me the lion. Show me the drum. Drum. Show me the violin. Show me the giraffe. Okay, next. Show me the bone. Show me the kite. Show me the boot. And show me the goat. Okay. That's good. Yeah. Okay. So next I'm going to ask you some questions and answer yes or no. Are you a man? Yeah. Am I a man? No. Do you cut the grass with an axe? No. Are babies watched by babysitters? There's times. There's times? Okay. Do you open your door with a key? Most of the time, yes. If you're about to leave, have you left yet? No. Are witnesses questioned by police? Yeah. If I tell you I used to smoke, do you think I smoke now? No. No. Yeah. Yeah. Well, no. Yeah. Although, forget it. Some spunky mice, yeah. Believe me, as long as you, neither are you are born yet, but go on. Tom and Jerry? I know Tom and Jerry. No, forget it. Okay. Real life, forget it. Okay. No, the cats chase their mice. Yeah. What is this? A dog. What is this? A pencil. What is this? A wheelchair. And this? An octopus. And this? A hammock or swing. What about that? An escalator. Great. Okay. So for this next part, I'm going to have you write. So go ahead and write what that is on this line here. Great. And then that one. And then that one. Wow. It's kind of weird looking, isn't it? Okay, and then what is happening in that one? Great, okay. Thank you. Okay. Next. Okay. So next I'm gonna have you repeat after me. House. House. I'm sorry. House. Oh, house. That's my fault. Okay, I'm sorry. That's okay. Sorry, sorry. House. Yes, okay. Breakfast. Breakfast. Catastrophe. Catastrophe. Undetectable. Undetectable. The sun rises in the east. The sun rises in the east. This one's long. The ambitious journalist discovered where we'd be going. The ambitious journalist discovered where we're going. Okay, so show me the guitar. Show me the tiger. Show me the zebra. Show me the saxophone. Okay, and then go ahead and show me the pear. Show me the crown. Crown. Show me the cloud. Show me the chair. Great. Okay. Now I'm going to ask you some more yes or no questions. Okay. Are you sitting right now? Yeah. Am I standing? No. Do you eat ice cream with a spoon? Yeah. Are spiders bitten by people? No Do you wear gloves on your feet? No If you're about to go outside, are you still inside? Yeah Are worms eaten by birds? I'm sorry That's okay Are worms eaten by birds? Yeah If I tell you I used to exercise, do you think I exercise now? No. Are babies delivered by doctors? Yeah. If you're about to start, have you started yet? No. Are parents raised by children? I'm sorry, no. No, we hear that sometimes for sure. The more I go on, the less I can convince. Yeah, I think the education can go both ways. It is. I think, yeah. Okay. If you were at the party when I arrived, did you get there first? If I'm at the party when you arrive. I got there first, yes. Great job. Okay. So for this next part, I'm going to have you read some words out loud. So go ahead and just start with that one. Ten, no proposition, inexperience, the bigger cries of the night. the popular novelist realized why I've been calling. Okay, so next I want you to show me the picture that matches the word in the middle. That concludes, oh, okay. That concludes all the pictures and words. Okay. So for this last part, I want you to stick out your tongue and move it side to side as fast as you can. Okay.