 so first. so first i'm just gonna be asking you to do some talking. so how do you think your speech is these days? not pretty good. that's my take on it. how do you mean? i can't think. i can't. say what i want to i'm sorry to hear it still a challenge for you. yeah, and spelling is just like i had to ask oh asked a phone what what what what were her name it was? oh, uh huh. serio to spell guard g u a r d but i couldn't spell it and simple words. simple words are okay or simple words are i can't think of it and but i if i had look up in dictionary or it light will go off and and i won't be off able to spell it. but the think of it i can't. so is it easier for you to think of the word to say it than to write it or it's about the same? even i still struggle to text because i can't think of the right spelling and not spelling and spelling and and word phrase do you use speech to text ever does that help or is it still? she gets aggravated so i don't do that do you remember when you had your stroke? oh, yeah. could you tell me about it? well, all the, the initial one. i remember, we always kissed before we, go to bed. and, well, she said, that i did buck a pucker is just you know right here and and i said well well over and over again i couldn't i couldn't say just well and i remember that the ride up to the gas station for the er to nova. i remember going in, but that was the last thing i remember until i woke up in vanderbilt. how did you get to vanderbilt? ambulance. what were your first memories afterwards? i was scared because i couldn't communicate and i had a deep depression. had to train all over again just to brush my teeth. you're right for saying that in terms of physical ability you've been good. yeah. it was just i guess that surgeon said that the cluster of vessels right here and it burst and so but i i wanted to when it released me i wanted to drive but anyway, yeah, it's a lot of life adjustments. i'm sure yeah, and every time i talk at least if we could conversation right here and you know the the i don't know you and right here i am sweating. and i didn't do that before the stroke. and so just to know that my glasses fogged up and i am starting to sweat. just with new people. but the my friend if we have could talk a lengthy i i started to sweat too, but just like if i was going to lows and talk to the person, you know, i mean i mean just just to i think i was i was even i'm embarrassed to communicate because you know i stumbled and and king think the words and so every time i do that sweat but anyway, that's it's so frustrating to me that you have to go through so much and then the burden still feels like it's on you for having to express that and i think hopefully now that there's a little bit more information people can start to understand how to help communicate when people have been through something like what you've been through and to be more aware of it because it shouldn't be on you to have to feel embarrassed or anxious because what you've done is amazing and to be as far as to come as far as you have to go from well well well to having a full conversation i hope that's something that you still feel proud of regardless of how difficult i'm sure it can be. i'm sorry to hear that. i can only imagine what that would feel like. so kind of in that vein, so how has your recovery been and what kinds of things have you been trying to do to improve since your stroke? well the speech therapist to nova, but that was i think it was six months.  okay. so. but, the insurgents cut me off, so... have you done stuff on your own since then? no. i don't think so. gotcha. i don't want to get right. no, you're right. we can always cut it anyways if i'm not. what about physical or occupational therapy? it sounded like you might have been doing those. what was it? with the writing. did you work? oh, okay. are we brushing your teeth, you said? yeah. okay. so only when you're in the hospital, but not afterwards. it was still a challenge. i don't know if it's september, i got home. it's all like that. so it still had to learn all over again. yeah, it sounds like mostly speech therapy. what kinds of things did you do? i don't know. well, she had me read and say the dumbest things over and over and over. i don't know. i just did five, you know, four words over and over again. and five, four, i mean six, whatever. i've seen stuff like that before. was it with reading mostly or was it with talking? talking. is talking. she said it and then i said it. well, the sentence and i had to repeat. okay. okay, so i'm going to ask you just a couple more things where we'll be talking and just as you've been, talk as much as you can during each one since we really want to hear your language. so, for this next part, just thinking back, could you tell me a story about something important that's happened to you in your life? and it could be happy, it could be sad, from a really long time ago when you were little or more recently, anything important that's happened. do what? i do. we did that one. what about, how did you guys meet? my, my dad was a preacher. and she, not she, he went to flint, michigan from florence, alabama. in january, i was sixty seven. he preached that her parents was converted. so, i seeked her out. that's really sweet. what about when you got married? well, i was in henderson, tennessee going to freed hardham and college. and it was a college there. then it's not now, it's a university, but she was still in flint, michigan. so that had a long distance relationship. and i started out preaching. but her dad was in general motors. and he was a grinder of skill trades and he said that the shops were hiring but the shops weren't hiring as well as he thought and we took, we went out up there in january and i got in july, the thirty first of seventy three. but that was a good move because we had retirement and the jitter motors stopped that retirement in probably oh oh seven or oh eight and i retired in oh three so there was a good move. yeah, good timing. yeah, but i just didn't want to be like my dad because preachers don't have a retirement because working you die. and if they don't have benefits, so you could have to probably hold down two jobs for benefits. i just, i decided not to go along those lines, and i am thankful. so... yeah, yeah. you can imagine the security is a lot nicer, i'm sure. inspir  and was the bill for that... surgery on the brain surgery. that was half a million. and we only paid just over a thousand dollars. well, but medicaid and blue cross, you know, paid. oh yeah. i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that i'm so glad that's as true as if i had had it be a preacher. he's gone. yeah, grateful in that moment. that's right. yeah, i can't imagine. i'm a student right now, so knock on wood until i can get a real job with some benefits and stuff to you. my glasses are fogging out. oh, okay we can always take a break whenever you want and i hope i'm not making you nervous no, i may make it myself nervous. okay. well, just know you're doing great. i'm really enjoying getting to talk to you. there's no pressure and this is a test, but it's not it's really just listening to you talk, so okay, so for this next part. i'm just gonna show you some pictures they're pretty big, but so go ahead and take some time to look at them. they tell a story and so if you could tell me a story with the beginning, middle, and end and you can look at the pictures as you tell the story just whenever you're ready. what do you mean that tell your story? so just kind of tell me what's happening essentially but a story just because like a beginning, middle, and end if you can. that's, yeah. the boy's kicking the ball, and it goes through the window, and he glends on his father, and his father throws it back at him. or, yeah. or he's going to discipline him. did you ever break a window? oh, yeah. yeah? that was a really fast answer. did you play sports? yes. oh, okay. oh, well. can i get you anything? no. okay. so, again. these are some more pictures that tell the story. and so if you could, again, just a beginning, middle, and end, tell me about what you see. you ready? now, first one, the picture was probably a child. don't want the umbrella. and mama said that you need an umbrella and probably, as he said, the child, you don't need one. so he goes out and ring and he gets wet and goes back and gets the umbrella so he could get dry yeah, yeah has it been raining out here a lot to a few days? it's a lot warmer in nashville today though than it is out here. we were surprised it was so cool really but not raining though okay so this is the last picture. yes. but then there's more, so we're not done. so again, just go ahead and look at everything that's happening in this picture and then tell me the story with a beginning, middle, and end, whatever you're ready. well, it lives probably a little girl and the cat and the dog chased him up the tree and dad got up on the tree and he lost his letter and he's probably doesn't get freed to the drop get down and farman had it be called to get the dad and the cat down yeah. the more times i look at this, the more i wonder why the girl doesn't try to pick up the ladder. i don't know. maybe she's too small. okay. this next part, so are you familiar with the story of cinderella? yeah, that was somewhat. somewhat. okay. well, i've got the whole picture book here for you to go ahead and flip through and remind you of how it goes and so you can go ahead and just go through all these pictures at your own pace and then i'll put the pictures away and after that and i'll have you tell me about the story. that's too long. it isn't a long one. yeah. not a big fan of. yes. okay, so now, tell me as much about the story of cinderella as you can. you can use any details that you know about the story as well as anything that you saw in the pictures. i can't probably get the words out. it's okay, just whatever you can. i don't know if there's a mother or a stepmother. anyway, two sisters, or they're ugly, and cinderella is beautiful, but they are into themselves. and a stepmother treats the other girls nice and taking parties and cinderella had to scrub the floors and and she was a stepmother who was harsh so very good mother comes in the view and helps her out and turns pumpkin into the chariot and horses and anyway animals turn into people and had glass slippers. she went to the ball and met the prince. she was late and the pumpkin turned back in and horses and men. oh, the prince tried to get the youngers, women to try on the slipper and the two ugly sisters. the feet. they tried to get a stick in their feet to the slipper and so cinderella had a fit to the slipper and lived that habit ever. you know, that was fantastic. you said you didn't think that. i mean, you got most of those details in there. that was, yeah, it was great. all right, this will be our last talking thing before we do just the kind of evaluation you've done before. the test you've done, i think, three times now in various form. so this is going to be a little bit different. tell me how you would make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. give it a red bread. get the peanut butter and jar and jelly jar and get the knife spread on the peanut butter and get a spoon. and dig out the jelly and spoon it on the bread and eat it. yeah, that's about right. i like your distinction between the knife for the peanut butter and the spoon for the jelly. i can tell that comes from a specific experience. that's right. i'm just gonna ask you some questions in their yes or no answers. so, let's see. okay. and i wearing black pants. i guess. yes. i didn't think it was fair to ask about my shirt, but this sweater is a lot of colors. that would be kind of confusing. are you wearing a green shirt? no. do you brush your teeth with a comb? no. our baby is named by parents. yes. do you take pictures with a camera? yes. if you're about to finish, how have you finished yet? i guess. i don't know. are people taxed by government? no, what? are people taxed by governments? yes. if you're about to go inside, are you still outside? yes. are wolves attacked by deer? no. if he was at the show when you arrived, did he get there first? yeah, sure. if he was at the show when you arrived, did he get there first? yeah, i think. if i tell you i use to drink coffee, do you think i drink coffee now? if i tell you i use to drink coffee, do you think i drink coffee now? probably now. yeah? that's great. okay. so, i'm gonna have you to some writing next. i know we're talking about this is hard, but just do your best. so just write whatever you see here on that line there. i can't know how to spell it. that's okay, yeah, it's a tricky one. i can't spell escalator. okay, it's okay, just do your best with whatever you can come up with and i can show you later also. and then that one if you can write try to write a sentence if you can. yeah see that's fantastic. i know that certain things are hard. it's obviously and that's but you got that super quickly you got a whole sentence pretty instantly so give yourself a little bit of credit with that too yeah, so yeah escalator is is like that just for yeah, okay yeah. it's a long one and it's a tricky one. okay. so... with this one i'm gonna have you repeat after me, like that therapist has to repeat silly things. i'm gonna have you repeat some silly things. i apologize. okay. so... head? head. brother. brother. proximity. proximity. inconceivable. inconceivable. the baby drinks from a bottle. the baby drinks from the bottle. the confident vocalist realized where we'd be staying. that's a confidence. vocalist that no i can try repeating it one more time the confident vocalist realized where we'd be staying the confident vocalist somewhere be staying anywhere. yeah, yeah great. okay. okay. so i've got some pictures here and i'm just gonna have you point to them. so show me the elephant. yeah, i'll put this in your reach. that's probably a little more fair. okay. show me the piano. show me the camel. show me the trumpet. yeah, and well then a couple more okay so show me the cat show me the box show me the cane show me the socks. yeah, okay so i'll have you just tell me what these things are. so, what is this? red. what is this? flower. mushroom. hermonica. stork. stethoscope. yeah, that's great. okay. so, we did writing to that. okay, more pictures. it's gonna be a lot of pictures in a row now. okay. so, show me the lion.  sorry. show me the drum. drum help. show me the violin show me the giraffe okay just one more set show me the bone bone show me the kite show me the boot and show me the goat yeah okay so so a couple more yes no questions are you a man? yes, i am in no do you cut the grass with an axe? no are babies watched by babysitters? yes. do you open your door with a key? yes. if you're about to leave, have you left yet? no. are witnesses questioned by police? yes. if i tell you i used to smoke, do you think i smoke now? are doctors treated by patients? no. if i was at the park when you arrived, did i get there first? yes. if you're about to go upstairs, are you still downstairs? no. are cats chased by mice? no, well... two sided question. yeah, very fair. tom and jerry definitely is the other way around or both ways really. yeah we get that we also there's one question we sometimes ask which is our parents raised by children and we get some two sided answers sometimes to well the parents raise the children, but the children ends up raising the parents.  yeah. yep. that's kind of how most people think about it usually. okay. yeah. all right. they're reading out loud. yeah.  okay. should i try to scroll the cover for timing? oh, i think it's okay. okay. so go ahead and just read these out loud. cough pro prohibition uncomfortable the dog sleeps on the floor the ethical account it understood why i've been hiding yeah that was awesome that one's a weird one too. so, okay. so, next i'm gonna show you there's gonna be pictures in a word in the middle and then just show me the picture that matches the word in the middle. guitar. tiger. zeebra. yeah. a saxophone. a pair. crown. sure yeah all right, so i'll double check since went a little bit out of order make sure i've got everything but then i have one more thing for you here okay, so next i'm gonna have you do stuff that i'm sure you've done in the past as well where you just kind of show me your movement and how that's going. so i know it's also a bit goofy, so i'm sorry. and if you could stick your tongue out and move it from side to side. 