 so first, i'm just going to be asking you to do some talking. so how do you think your speech is these days? not very good. that's my take on it. how do you mean? i can't think. say what i want to. i'm sorry to hear it's still a challenge for you. yep. and spelling is tremendous. just like i had to ask old... ah, shoot. ask it to phone whatever name it was. oh, uh-huh. instead of typing. serial. to spell guard. g-u-a-r-d. but i couldn't spell it. simple words. simple words are okay? simple words are, i can't think of it. but if i had to look it up in the dictionary, the light would go off and i wouldn't be able to. able to spell it but but to think of it i keep so is it easier for you to think of the word to say it than to write it or it's about the same uh even uh i still still struggle to text because i can't think of the right spelling and not spelling and spelling and and uh uh word phrase so do you use speech to text ever does that help or is it still the uh she gets aggravated so i don't do that that's fair do you remember when you had your stroke? oh, yeah. could you tell me about it? well, the initial one, i remember we always kissed before we go to bed. and, well, she said, that i did pucker. it was just, you know, right here. and i said, well, well, over and over again. i couldn't say just well. and i remember that the ride up to the gas station for the er to nova. i remember going in, but that was the last thing i remember until i woke up in vanderbilt. how did you get to vanderbilt? ambulance. what were your first memories afterwards? i was scared because i couldn't communicate and i had a deep depression. had to train all over again just to brush my teeth. but your wife was saying that in terms of physical ability, you've been good. yeah, it was just, i guess, the surgeon said that the cluster of vessels. right here, and it burst, and so. but i wanted to, when you released me, i wanted to drive. but anyway. yeah, it's a lot of life adjustments, i'm sure. every time i talk, at least if we're in conversation right here, you know, the i don't know you, and right here, i am sweating and i didn't do that before the stroke. so just to know that my glasses fogged up and i am starting to sweat. just with new people? yep. but my friend, if we had to talk lengthy, i started to sweat too. but just like if i was going to lowe's and talked to the person, you know, i mean. i mean, just to, i think i was embarrassed, even i'm embarrassed to communicate. because, you know, i stumble and can't think of the words. and so every time i do that, i sweat. but anyway. it's so frustrating to me that you have to go through so much and then the burden still feels like it's on you for having to express that. and i think hopefully now that there's a little bit more information, people can start to understand how to help communicate. when people have been through something like what you've been through and to be more aware of it because it shouldn't be on you to have to feel embarrassed or anxious because you know but what you've done is amazing and to be as far as to come as far as you have to go from well well well to having a full conversation i hope that's something that you still feel proud of regardless of difficult i'm sure it can be. i'm sorry to hear that. i can only imagine what that would feel like. so kind of in that vein, so how has your recovery been and what kinds of things have you been trying to do to improve since your stroke? well, the speech therapist at tenova, but that was i think it was six months. okay. but the insurance cut me off. gotcha. have you done stuff on your own since then? no, i don't think so. gotcha. i don't want the camera. no, you're good. we can always cut it anyways if you need. what about physical or occupational therapy? it sounded like you might have been doing those. what was that? with the writing. he didn't do any of that. oh, okay. with brushing your teeth, you said. yeah. okay. so only when you're in the hospital, but not afterwards. well, it was still a challenge. mm-hmm. even though i got, i don't know, was it september i got home? mm-hmm. something like that. so i still had to learn. yeah. all over again. mm-hmm. yeah, so it sounds like mostly speech therapy after your stroke. what kinds of things did you do? i don't remember. she had me read and say the dumbest things over and over and over. but it was, i don't know, just five, you know, four words over and over again. and then five, four, i mean six, whatever. i've seen stuff like that before. was it with reading mostly or was it with talking? talking. is talking she she she said it and then i said well the that sentence and and i had to uh repeat okay okay so i'm gonna ask you just a couple more things where we'll um be talking and just as you've been, talk as much as you can during each one since we really want to hear your language. so for this next part, just thinking back, could you tell me a story about something important that's happened to you in your life? and it could be happy, it could be sad, from a really long time ago when you were little or more recently. anything important that's happened? i don't know. tell her how we knew you were having your stroke. do what? we did that one. what about, how did you guys meet? my dad was a preacher. he went to flint, michigan from florence, alabama. in january of sixty-seven. he preached that her parents was converted and so i seeked her out. that's really sweet. what about when you got married? well, i was in henderson, tennessee, going to freed hardeman college. that was a college there then. it's not now. it's a university. she was still in flint, michigan, so that had a long-distance relationship. i started out preaching, but her dad was in general motors. and he was a grinder, skill trades, and he said that the shops were hiring, but the shops weren't hiring as well as he thought. and we went up there in january of... and i got in july thirty-first of seventy-three. so, but that was a good move because we had retirement and the general motors stopped that retirement in probably oh oh seven or oh eight and i retired in oh three so it was a good move but i just didn't want to be like my dad because preachers don't have a retirement. you go to work and you die. and if they don't have benefits, so you could have had to probably hold down two jobs for benefits. i just, i decided not to go along those lines, and i am thankful, so. yeah, yeah, i can imagine. the security is a lot nicer, i'm sure. and was the bill for that. surgery on the brain surgery as half a million and and the we only paid oh just over a thousand dollars wow well, but medicaid and blue cross, you know paid paid. oh, yeah medicare and blue cross paid for that. wow. i'm so glad. i was really glad. i can't imagine having to face a bill like that and having the uncertainty of how much would be covered. so i'm glad that that was significantly, still not cheap, but a lot cheaper than the face value. that's true. if i had to be a preacher, he's going... yeah, grateful in that moment. that's right. wow. yeah, i can't imagine. i'm a student right now, so knock on wood until i can get a real job with some benefits and stuff, too. my glasses are fogging up. oh, okay. we can always take a break whenever you want. and i hope i'm not making you nervous at all. i may make myself nervous. okay. well, just know you're doing great. i'm really enjoying getting to talk to you. there's no pressure. i know this is a test, but it's not. it's really just listening to you talk. okay. so for this next part, i'm just going to show you some pictures. well so you might need your classes and they're pretty big but um so go ahead and take some time to look at them and they tell a story and so if you could tell me a story with the beginning middle and end and you can look at the pictures as you tell the story just whenever you're ready what do you mean tell your story so just kind of tell me what's happening essentially but a story just because like a beginning middle and end if you can that's yeah the boy was kicking the ball and then and it goes through the window and he lands on his father and his father throws it back at him or yeah or you're gonna discipline him did you ever break a window as a kid? oh, yeah. yeah? that was a really fast answer. did you play sports? yes. okay. can i get you anything? no. okay. so, again. these are some more pictures that tell the story. and so if you could, again, just a beginning, middle, and end, tell me about what you see when you're ready. well, first one, the picture was probably a child. don't want the umbrella and mama said that you need an umbrella and probably they said the child you don't need one so he he goes out in the ring and he gets wet and he goes back and gets the umbrella, so he can get dry. yeah, yeah. has it been raining out here a lot, too, the past few days? mm-hmm. it's a lot warmer in nashville today, though, than it is out here. we were surprised it was so cold. but not raining, though. okay. so this is the last picture. good. but then there's more, so we're not done. so again, just go ahead and look at everything that's happening in this picture, and then tell me the story with a beginning, middle, and end, whenever you're ready. well, there's probably a little girl. the cat and the dog chased him up the tree and dad uh got up on the tree and he lost his ladder and uh and he's done probably done free to the drop uh get down and the fireman had to be called to get the dad and the cat down yeah. the more times i look at this, the more i wonder why the girl doesn't try to pick up the ladder. i don't know. maybe she's too small. okay. this next part. so are you familiar with the story of cinderella? yeah, somewhat. somewhat. okay. well, i've got the whole picture book here for... you to go ahead and flip through and remind you of how it goes. and so you can go ahead and just go through all these pictures at your own pace and then i'll put the pictures away and after that i'll have you tell me about the story. it's too long. it is not long enough. yeah. not a big fan of... yeah, i was... okay, so... so now, tell me as much about the story of cinderella as you can. you can use any details that you know about the story, as well as anything that you saw in the pictures. i can't probably get the words out. it's okay, just whatever you can. cinderella's, i don't know if it was mother or stepmother. anyway to two sisters or they're ugly and cinderella's beautiful so but they are into themselves and a stepmother treats the other girls nice and taking parties. and cinderella had to scrub the floors. and she was a stepmother who was harsh. so, fairy godmother comes in the view and helps her out and turns a pumpkin into the chariot and horses and any way animals turned into people. and had glass slippers and she went to the ball and met the prince. she was late and the pumpkin turned back in and the horses and the men. the prince tried to get the younger women to try on the slipper and the two ugly sisters the feet, they tried to get, stick it in their feet to the slipper and so cinderella had a fit to the slipper and lived happily ever. no, that was fantastic. you said you didn't think that. i mean, you got most of those details in there. that was, yeah, that was great. all right, this will be our last talking thing before we do just the kind of evaluation you've done before, the test you've done, i think, three times now? yeah, in various forms. so this is going to be a little bit different. tell me how you would make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. get bread. get the peanut butter and jar and jelly jar. and get the knife and spread on the peanut butter and get a spoon. dig out the jelly and spoon it on the bread and eat it. sounds about right. i like your distinction between the knife for the peanut butter and the spoon for the jelly. i can tell that comes from a specific experience. that's right. i'm just going to ask you some questions in their yes or no answers. so, let's see. okay. am i wearing black pants? i guess. yes. i didn't think it was fair to ask about my shirt when this sweater is a lot of colors. that would be kind of confusing. okay. are you wearing a green shirt? no. do you brush your teeth with a comb? no. are babies named by parents? yes. do you take pictures with a camera? yes. if you're about to finish, have you finished yet? i guess. i don't know. are people taxed by governments? the what? are people taxed by governments? yes. if you're about to go inside, are you still outside? yes. are wolves attacked by deer? no. if he was at the show when you arrived, did he get there first? read it to me again. yeah, sure. if he was at the show when you arrived, did he get there first? yeah, i think. are thieves robbed by victims? no. if i tell you i used to drink coffee, do you think i drink coffee now? i don't really... if i tell you i used to drink coffee, do you think i drink coffee now? probably no. yeah? that's great. okay. so i'm going to have you do some writing next. i know we were talking about that this is hard, but just do your best. so just write whatever you see here on that line there. there's a chair, but i can't know how to spell it. that's okay. yeah, it's a tricky one. i can't spell escalator. okay. it's okay. just do your best with whatever you can come up with, and i can show you later also. then that one if you can write try to write a sentence if you can yeah. see, that's fantastic. i know that certain things are hard, obviously, but you got that super quickly. you got a whole sentence pretty instantly. so give yourself a little bit of credit with that, too. yeah, so, yeah, escalator is like that. just for, yeah. okay. yeah. it's a long one, and it's a tricky one. okay. so... with this one, i'm going to have you repeat after me, like that therapist had me repeat silly things. i'm going to have you repeat some silly things. i apologize. okay. so, head. head. brother. brother. proximity. proximity. inconceivable. inconceivable. the baby drinks from a bottle. the baby drinks from the bottle. the confident vocalist realized where we'd be staying. vocalist... no. i can try repeating it one more time. the confident vocalist realized where we'd be staying. a confident vocalist somewhere being staying. yeah, yeah. great. okay. okay. so i've got some pictures here and i'm just going to have you point to them. so show me the elephant. yeah, i'll put this in your reach. that's probably a little more fair. okay. show me the piano. show me the camel. show me the trumpet. yeah, okay couple more okay so show me the cat show me the box show me the cane show me the socks. yeah, okay so i'll have you just tell me what these things are. so what is this? fid. what is this? flower. mushroom. harmonica. stork. stethoscope. yeah, that was great. okay. so, we did writing, did that. okay, more pictures. there's going to be a lot of pictures in a row now. okay. so, show me the lion. sorry. sorry. show me the drum. drum? show me the violin. show me the giraffe. okay. just one more set. show me the bone. bone. show me the kite. show me the boot. and show me the goat. yeah, okay so a couple more yes-no questions are you a man? yes. am i a man? no. do you cut the grass with an axe? no. are babies watched by babysitters? yes do you open your door with a key? yes if you're about to leave have you left yet? no are witnesses questioned by police? yes if i tell you i used to smoke do you think i smoke now? no. yes. no. no. well... two-sided question. yeah, very fair. tom and jerry. i was about to say, tom and jerry definitely is the other way around. or both ways, really. yeah. we get that. there's one question we sometimes ask, which is, are parents raised by children? we get some two-sided answers with that sometimes, too. well, the parents raise the children, but the children end up. raising the parents. yeah. yep. that's kind of how most people think about it usually. yeah. all right. they're reading out loud. yeah. okay. should i try and scroll the cover for timing? oh, i think it's okay. okay. so go ahead and just read these out loud. pot. cough. prohibition. uncomfortable. the dog sleeps on the floor. the ethical accountant understood why i've been hiding. yeah. that was awesome. okay. that one's a weird one too, so. okay. so next i'm going to show you, there's going to be pictures and a word in the middle. and then just show me the picture that matches the word in the middle. guitar. tiger. zebra. yeah. saxophone. pair. crown. sure. yeah. all right. so i'll double check since it went a little bit out of order. make sure i've got everything. but then i have one more thing for you here. yeah. okay. so... next, i'm going to have you do stuff that i'm sure you've done in the past as well, where you just kind of show me your movement and how that's going. so, i know it's also a bit goofy, so i'm sorry. if you could stick your tongue out and move it from side to side.