 So first, I'm just going to be asking you to do some talking. So how do you think your speech is these days? Not very good. That's my take on it. How do you mean? I can't think I can't say what I want to I'm sorry to hear it's still a challenge for you And spelling is tremendous. like I had to ask old, ah shoot, ask it, the phone, whatever name it was, Siri, to spell guard G you a or D but I couldn't spill it and simple words simple words are I I can't think of it. But I, if I had look it up in dictionary or light will go off and I won't be able to spell it. But but to think of it I can't. So is it easier for you to think of the word to say it than to write it or it's about the same? Even I still struggle to text because I can't think of the right spelling. and not spelling and spelling and and uh word phrase so do you use speech to text ever does that help no or is it still the uh uh she gets aggravated so i don't do that that's fair Do you remember when you had your stroke? Oh yeah. Could you tell me about it? Well, the initial one, I remember we always kissed before we go to bed. And well she said that I did pucker, it was just right here. And I said well, well. over and again I couldn't say just well. And I remember that the ride up to the gas station for the ER to Nova, I remember going in but that was the last thing I remember until I woke up in Vanderbilt. How did you get to Vanderbilt? Ambulance. What were your first memories afterwards? I just, I was scared because I couldn't communicate and I had a deep depression. And I had to train all over again just to brush my teeth. But your wife was saying that in terms of physical ability, you've been good. Yeah, it was just, I guess, the surgeon said that, you know, the cluster of vessels right here and it burst and so but I I wanted to when released me I wanted to drive but anyway yeah it's a lot of life adjustments I'm sure yeah and every time I talk at least if we're conversation right here and you You know, the, I don't know you, and right here I am sweating. And I didn't do that before the stroke. And so just to know that my glasses fogged up and I am starting to sweat. Oh, no. Just with new people? Yep. Hmm. But my friend, if we had to talk lengthy, I started to sweat too. But just like if I was going to Lowe's and I talked to the person, you know, I mean, just to, I think I was embarrassed, I was even I'm embarrassed to communicate because you know I stumble and can't think the words and and so every time I do that sweat you know so but anyway that's it's so frustrating to me that you have to go through so much and then the burden still feels like it's on you for having to express that. And I think hopefully now that there's a little bit more information, people can start to understand how to help communicate when people have been through something like what you've been through and to be more aware of it because it shouldn't be on you to have to feel embarrassed or anxious because what you've done is amazing. But what you've done is amazing. And to come as far as you have, to go from well, well, well to having a full conversation, I hope that's something that you still feel proud of, regardless of how difficult I'm sure it can be. I'm sorry to hear that. I can only imagine what that would feel like. So, kind of in that vein, so how has your recovery been? And what kinds of things have you been trying to do to improve since your stroke? Well, the speech therapist at Tenova. But that was, I think it was six months. Okay. So, but the insurance cut me off, so. Gotcha. Have you done stuff on your own since then? No, I don't think so. Gotcha. I don't want to get rough. We can always cut it anyways if you need. What about physical or occupational therapy? It sounded like you might have been doing those. Was it? With the writing? He didn't do any of that. Did you work? Oh, okay. All he had was... Or with brushing your teeth, you said. Yeah. Okay. So only when you're in the hospital, but not afterwards. Well, it was still a challenge. Mm-hmm. Even though I got, I don't know, was it September I got home? Mm-hmm. Something like that. Mm-hmm. So I still had to learn. Yeah. All over again. Mm-hmm. Yeah, so it sounds like mostly speech therapy after your stroke. What kinds of things did you do? I don't remember. Too long ago. Yeah. Well, she had me read and say the dumbest things over and over and over. but was I don't know just a five you know four four words over and over again and then five four I mean six whatever I've seen stuff like that before was it with reading mostly or was it with talking talking just talking she she she said it and then i said well the that sentence and and i had to uh um repeat okay okay so i'm gonna ask you just a couple more things where we'll be talking and just as you've been talk as much as you can during each one since we really want to hear your language so for this next part just thinking back could you tell me a story about something important that's happened to you in your life and it could be it can be happy it could be sad from a really long time ago when you were little or more recently anything important that's happened? I don't know. Tell her how we knew you were having your stroke. Do what? Tell her how you were told to do it. We did that one. What about how did you guys meet? My dad was a preacher. She, not she, he went to Flint, Michigan from Florence, Alabama in January of 67. And where he preached at, her parents was converted. And so I seeked her out. That's really sweet. What about when you got married? Well, I was in Henderson, Tennessee going to Freed Hardeman College. And that was a college there then, it's not now, it's a university. She was still in Flint, Michigan, so that had a long distance relationship. I started out preaching. But her dad was in General Motors. He was a grinder of skill trades and he said that the shops were hiring, but the shops weren't hiring as well as he thought. And we went up there in January of 73 and I got in July 31st of 73. But that was a good move because we had retirement and the General Motors stopped that retirement in probably 07 or 08 and I retired in 03. So it was a good move. Good timing. But I just didn't want to be like my dad because preachers don't have a retirement. You go to work and you die. and if they don't have benefits and so you could have had to probably hold down two jobs for benefits so I just I decided not to go along like those lines and I am thankful. Yeah, yeah. You can imagine the security is a lot nicer, I'm sure. And was the bill for that surgery, on the brain surgery, that was half a million. And we only paid just over $1,000. Wow. But Medicaid and Blue Cross paid for that. Wow. I'm so glad. I can't imagine having to face a bill like that and having the uncertainty of how much would be covered so I'm glad that that was significantly still not cheap but a lot cheaper than the face value that's true if I had to be a preacher he's going Yeah, grateful in that moment. That's right. Wow. Yeah, I can't imagine. I'm a student right now, so knock on wood until I can get a real job with some benefits and stuff too. My glasses are fogging up. Oh, okay. We can always take a break whenever you want. And I hope I'm not making you nervous at all. No, I may make myself nervous. Okay. Well, just know you're doing great. I'm really enjoying getting to talk to you. There's no pressure. I know this is a test, but it's not. It's really just listening to you talk. Okay. So for this next part, I'm just going to show you some pictures. Well. You might need your glasses. They're pretty big. bit. So go ahead and take some time to look at them. They tell a story. And so if you could tell me a story with the beginning, middle, and end. And you can look at the pictures as you tell the story, just whenever you're ready. What do you mean, tell a story? So just kind of tell me what's happening, essentially. But a story just because, like beginning, middle, and end if you can. The boy was kicking the ball and it goes through the window and he lands on his father and his father throws it back at him. or yeah or you're disciplining did you ever break a window as a kid oh yeah yeah yeah that was a really fast answer did you play sports yes okay well can I get you anything no okay so again these are some more pictures that tell the story and so if you could again just a beginning middle and end and tell me about what you see when you're ready well first one picture was probably the child don't want the umbrella and mama said that you need an umbrella and probably they said the child you don't need one so he he goes out and ring and he gets wet and goes back and gets the umbrella associate he could get dry yeah yeah Has it been raining out here a lot too? Oh yes. The past few days? Mm-hmm. It's a lot warmer in Nashville today though than it is out here. We were surprised it was so cold. Really? But not raining though. Okay so this is the last picture. Good. So but then there's more so we're not done but so again just go ahead and look at everything that's happening in this picture and then tell me the story with the beginning middle and end and whatever you're ready well there's probably a little girl and the cat and the dog chased him up the tree and dad got up on the tree and he lost his ladder and he's probably free to get down and the fireman had to be called to get the dad and the cat down. The more times I look at this the more I wonder why the girl doesn't try to pick up the ladder. I don't know, maybe she's too small. Okay this next part, so are you familiar with the story of Cinderella? Yeah, somewhat. Somewhat, okay. Well I've got the whole picture book here for you to go ahead and flip through and remind you of how it goes. And so you can go ahead and just go through all these pictures at your own pace and then I'll put the pictures away and after that I'll have you tell me about the story. Okay. That's too long. It is not long enough. Not a big fan of Yeah Okay so So now Tell me as much about the story of Cinderella As you can You can use any details that you know about the story As well as anything that you saw in the pictures Yeah I don't know about that I can't probably get the words out. It's okay, just whatever you can. Cinderella's, I don't know if it was mother or stepmother, or anyway, Two sisters are, they're ugly and Cinderella's beautiful, so, but they are into themselves. And my stepmother treats the other girls nice and take them to parties and Cinderella had had to scrub the floors and she was a stepmother who was harsh and So Fairy Godmother comes in the view and helps her out and turns a pumpkin into the chariot and horses and anyway animals turned into people and had glass slippers and she went to the ball and met the prince and she was late and the pumpkin turned back in and horses and men. So the prince tried to get the younger women to try on the slipper. And the two ugly There was a, the feet, they tried to get, stick it in their feet to the slipper and So Cinderella had a fit to the slipper and lived happily ever. Yeah, yeah. That was fantastic. You said you didn't think that, I mean you got most of those details in there. That was, yeah, that was great. Alright, this will be our last talking thing before we do just the kind of evaluation you've done before. The test you've done, I think, three times now? Yeah. In various forms. So, this is going to be a little bit different. Tell me how you would make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. Get the bread. bread, get the peanut butter and jar and jelly jar and get the knife and spread on the peanut butter and get a spoon and dig out the jelly and spoon it on the bread and eat it. Yeah, sounds about right. I like your distinction between the knife for the peanut butter and the spoon for the jelly. I can tell that comes from a specific experience. That's right. So, I'm just going to ask you some questions, and they're yes or no answers. So, let's see. Okay. Am I wearing black pants? I guess. Yes. I didn't think it was fair to ask about my shirt when this sweater is a lot of colors. That would be kind of confusing. Okay. Are you wearing a green shirt? No. Do you brush your teeth with a comb? No. Are babies named by parents? Yes. Do you take pictures with a camera? Yes. If you're about to finish, have you finished yet? I guess. I don't know. Are people taxed by government? The what? Are people taxed by government? Yes. If you're about to go inside, are you still outside? Yes. Are wolves attacked by deer? No. No. If he was at the show when you arrived, did he get there first? I'll read it to you again. Yeah, sure. If he was at the show when you arrived, did he get there first? Yeah, I think. Are thieves robbed by victims? No. If I tell you I used to drink coffee, do you think I drink coffee now? I don't really... If I tell you I used to drink coffee, do you think I drink coffee now? Probably no. Yeah. That's great. Okay. Okay. So I'm going to have you do some writing next. I know we were talking about that this is hard, but just do your best. So just write whatever you see here on that line there. There's a tear of it out. I can't know how to spell it. That's okay, yeah, it's a tricky one. I can't spell escalator. Okay, it's okay, just do your best with whatever you can come up with, and I can show you later also. And then that one if you can write, try to write a sentence if you can. Yeah. See, that's fantastic. I know that certain things are hard, obviously, but you got that super quickly. You got a whole sentence pretty instantly. So give yourself a little bit of credit with that, too. Yeah, so, yeah, escalator is like that. Just for, yeah. okay it's a long one and it's a tricky one with this one I'm gonna have you repeat after me like that therapist had to repeat silly things I'm gonna have you repeat some silly things I apologize so head head brother brother proximity proximity inconceivable inconceivable the baby drinks from a bottle the baby drinks from the bottle the confident vocalist realized where we'd be staying? The confident vocalist... that... No. I can try repeating it one more time. The confident vocalist realized where we'd be staying. The confident vocalist somewhere we'd be staying. Yeah, yeah. Great. Okay. Okay. So I've got some pictures here, and I'm just going to have you point to them. So show me the elephant. Yeah, I'll put this in your reach. That's probably a little more fair. Okay. Show me the piano. Show me the camel. Show me the trumpet. Yeah. And violin. A couple more. Okay. So, show me the cat. Show me the box. Show me the cane. Show me the socks. Yeah. Okay. So, next I'll have you just tell me what these things are. So what is this? Bed. What is this? Flower. Mushroom. Harmonica. Stork. Mm-hmm. Stethoscope. Mm-hmm. Yeah, that was great. Okay. So, we did writing. Goodbye. Okay. More pictures. There's going to be a lot of pictures in a row now. Okay. So, show me the lion. Sorry. You wouldn't go. Okay. That's fine. Show me the drum. Show me the violin. Show me the giraffe. Okay. Just one more set. Show me the bone. Show me the kite. Show me the boot. And show me the goat. Yeah. Okay. So, thank you. No problem. Okay. So, a couple more yes, no questions. Okay. Are you a man? Yes. Am I a man? No Do you cut the grass with an axe? No Are babies watched by babysitters? Yes Do you open your door with a key? Yes If you're about to leave, have you left yet? No Are witnesses questioned by police? Yes If I tell you I used to smoke, do you think I smoke now? No. Are doctors treated by patients? No. If I was at the park when you arrived, did I get there first? Yes. If you're about to go upstairs, are you still downstairs? No. are cats chased by mice no well two-sided question yeah very fair i was about to say tom and jerry definitely is the other way around or both ways really yeah we get that we also there's one question we sometimes ask which is are parents raised by children? We get some two-sided answers with that sometimes, too. Well, the parents raise the children, but the children end up raising the parents. Yeah. Yep, that's kind of how most people think about it usually. Yeah. All right. They're reading out loud, yeah. Should I try and scroll the cover for timing? Oh, I think it's okay. Okay, so go ahead and just read these out loud. Pot, cough, prohibition, uncomfortable, The dog sleeps on the floor. The ethical accountant understood why I've been hiding. Yeah. That was awesome. Well. Okay. That one's a weird one, too, so. Okay. Okay, so next I'm going to show you, there's going to be pictures and a word in the middle, and then just show me the picture that matches the word in the middle. Guitar. Tiger. Zebra. Yeah. saxophone, pair, crown, cloud, chair, Yeah. All right, so I'll double check since it went a little bit out of order to make sure I've got everything, but then I have one more thing for you here. Okay, so next I'm going to have you do stuff that I'm sure you've done in the past as well, where you just kind of show me your movement and how that's going. So, I know it's also a bit goofy, so I'm sorry. If you could stick your tongue out and move it from side to side.