 So first I'm just going to be asking you to do some talking. So how do you think your speech is these days? Not very good. That's my take on it. How do you mean? I can't think. Say what I want to. I'm sorry to hear it's still a challenge for you. Yep. And spelling is tremendous. Just like I had to ask old... Ah, shoot. ask it to phone whatever name it was, Siri, to spell guard, G-U-A-R-D, but I couldn't spell it. Simple words. Simple words are okay? Simple words are, I can't think of it. But if I had to look it up in the dictionary, the light would go off and I would be all... able to spell it but but to think of it i keep so is it easier for you to think of the word to say it than to write it or it's about the same uh even uh i still still struggle to text because i can't think of the right spelling and not spelling and spelling and and Word phrase So do you use speech to text ever does that help no or is it still? the She gets aggravated Do you remember when you had your stroke? Oh, yeah. Could you tell me about it? Well, the initial one, I remember we always kissed before we go to bed. And, well, she said, that I did pucker. It was just, you know, right here. And I said, well, well, over and over again. I couldn't say just well. And I remember that the ride up to the gas station for the ER to Nova. I remember going in, but that was the last thing I remember until I woke up in Vanderbilt. How did you get to Vanderbilt? Ambulance. What were your first memories afterwards? I was scared because I couldn't communicate and I had a deep depression. And I had to train all over again just to brush my teeth. But your wife was saying that in terms of physical ability, you've been good. Yeah, it makes sense. vessels right here and uh it burst and so but i i i i wanted to when you released me i wanted to drive but anyway yeah it's a lot of life adjustments i'm sure Yeah, and every time I talk, at least if we're in conversation right here, you know, the I don't know you. And right here, I am sweating. And I didn't do that before the stroke. And so just to know that my glasses fogged up and I am starting to sweat. Just with new people? Yep. But my friend, if we had to talk lengthy, I started to sweat too. But just like if I was going to Lowe's and I talked to the person, you know, I mean, just to, I think I was even embarrassed to communicate because, you know, I stumble and can't think of the words. And so every time I do that. sweat you know so but anyway that's it's so frustrating to me that you have to go through so much and then the burden still feels like it's on you for having to express that and I think hopefully now that there's a little bit more information people can start to understand how to help communicate when people have been through something like what you've been through and to be more aware of it because it shouldn't be on you to have to feel embarrassed or anxious because what you've done is amazing. But what you've done is amazing. And to come as far as you have, to go from well, well, well, to having a full conversation, I hope that's something that you still feel proud of, regardless of how difficult I'm sure it can be. I'm sorry to hear that. I can only imagine what that would feel like. So kind of in that vein, How has your recovery been, and what kinds of things have you been trying to do to improve since your stroke? Well, the speech therapist at Tenova. But that was, I think it was six months. Okay. But the insurance cut me off. Have you done stuff on your own since then? No, I don't think so. Gotcha. We can always cut it anyways if you need. What about physical or occupational therapy? It sounded like you might have been doing those. What was that? With the writing? He didn't do anything. Did you work? Oh, okay. All he had was. Or with brushing your teeth, you said. Yeah. Okay. So only when you're in the hospital, but not afterwards. Well, it was still a challenge. Mm-hmm. Even though I got, I don't know, was it September I got home? Mm-hmm. Something like that. Mm-hmm. So it's still. Had to learn yeah all over again Sounds like mostly speech therapy. What kinds of things did you do? I don't work Well she had me read and and say the dumbest things over and over and over. But it was, I don't know, just five, you know, four words over and over again. Then five, four, I mean six, whatever. I've seen stuff like that before. Was it with reading mostly, or was it with talking? Talking. It was talking. She said it, and then I said it. Well, that sentence, and I had to repeat. Mm-hmm. Okay. Okay. So I'm going to ask you just a couple more things where we'll be talking. And just as you've been, talk as much as you can during each one since we really want to hear your language. So for this next part, just thinking back, could you tell me a story about something important that's happened to you in your life? And it could be happy. it could be sad from a really long time ago when you were little or more recently anything important that's happened i don't know tell her how we knew you were having your spoke do what i do we did we did that one okay what about how did you guys meet my uh my dad was a preacher and she uh not she he um Went to Flint Michigan from Florence, Alabama and In January of sixty seven and We're She he preached at Her her parents was converted and So, I seeked her out. That's really sweet. What about when you got married? Well, I was in Henderson, Tennessee, going to Freed Hardeman College. And that was a college there then. It's not now. It's a university. But she was still in Flint, Michigan. So it had a long-distance relationship. I started out preaching, but her dad was in General Motors. He was a grinder of skilled trades, and he said that the shops were hiring. the shop he the sharps weren't hiring as well as he he thought and we took we went out up there in January of the seventy three and and and I got in July thirty first But that was a good move because we had retirement and the General Motors stopped that retirement in probably oh oh seven or oh eight and I retired in So it was a good move. It's good timing. But I just didn't want to be like my dad because preachers don't have a retirement. You go to work and you die. And if they don't have benefits, so I had to probably hold down two jobs for benefits. So I just decided not to go along those lines, and I am thankful. Yeah, yeah, you can imagine the security is a lot nicer, I'm sure. And was the bill for that surgery, on the brain surgery, that was half a million. And we only paid uh oh just over a thousand dollars wow well but medicaid and um blue cross you know paid paid huh medicare oh yeah yeah medicare and blue cross paid for that wow i'm so glad that's yeah i i'm just really glad him just i can't imagine having to face a bill like that and having the uncertainty of how much would be covered. So I'm glad that that was significantly, still not cheap, but a lot cheaper than the face value. That's true. If I had to be a preacher, he's going... Yeah, grateful in that moment. That's right. Yeah, I can't imagine. I'm a student right now, so knock on wood until I can get a real job with some benefits and stuff, too. My glasses are fogging up. Oh, okay. We can always take a break whenever you want, and I hope I'm not making you nervous at all. No, I'm making myself nervous. Okay. Just know you're doing great. I'm really enjoying getting to talk to you. There's no pressure. I know this is a test, but it's not. It's really just listening to you talk. Okay. So for this next part, I'm just going to show you some pictures. Well. So you might need your glasses. They're pretty big. So go ahead and take some time to look at them. They tell a story. And so if you could tell me a story with the beginning, middle, and end. And you can look at the pictures as you tell the story, just whenever you're ready. What do you mean, tell your story? So, just kind of tell me what's happening, essentially. But a story just because, like a beginning, middle, and end, if you can. the uh window and he lands on his father and his father throws him back at him or yeah or you're gonna discipline him did you ever break a window oh yeah yeah yeah that was a really fast answer did you play sports Yes. Okay. Well. Can I get you anything? No. Okay. So, again, these are some more pictures that tell the story. And so if you could, again, just a beginning, middle, and end, tell me about what you see when you're ready. Well, first one picture was probably a child don't want the umbrella. And mama said that you need an umbrella. And probably they said the child, you don't need one. So he goes out in the rain and he gets wet and goes back and gets the umbrella so he can get dry. Has it been raining out here a lot too the past few days? Oh yes. It's a lot warmer in Nashville today, though, than it is out here. We were surprised it was so cold. But not raining, though. Okay. So this is the last picture. Good. But then there's more, so we're not done. So, again, just go ahead and look at everything that's happening in this picture, and then tell me the story with a beginning, middle, and end whenever you're ready. Well there's probably the little girl had the cat and the dog chased him up the tree and dad got up on the tree and he lost his ladder and And he probably doesn't get free to get down. And the fireman had to be called to get the dad and the cat down. Yeah. The more times I look at this, the more I wonder why the girl doesn't try to pick up the ladder. I don't know. Maybe she's too small. Okay, this next part. So are you familiar with the story of Cinderella? Yeah, somewhat. Somewhat. Okay. Well, I've got the whole picture book here for you to go ahead and flip through and remind you of how it goes. And so you can go ahead and just go through all these pictures at your own pace. And then I'll put the pictures away. And after that, I'll have you tell me about the story. Hmm. It's too long. It is not long enough. Yeah. Not a big fan of... Yeah, I was... Okay, so... So now, tell me as much about the story of Cinderella as you can. You can use any details that you know about the story as well as anything that you saw in the pictures. I can't probably get the words out. It's okay, just whatever you can. Cinderella's, I don't know if it was mother or stepmother. anyway to two sisters or they're ugly and Cinderella's beautiful so but they are into themselves and a stepmother treats the other girls nice and taking parties. And Cinderella had to scrub the floors. And she was a stepmother who was harsh. So, Fairy Godmother comes in the view and helps her out and turns a pumpkin into the chariot and horses and any way animals turned into people. and had glass slippers and she went to the ball and met the prince. She was late and the pumpkin turned back in and the horses and the men. The prince tried to get the younger women to try on the slipper and the two ugly sisters They tried to get a stick in their feet to the slipper and so Cinderella had a fit to the slipper and lived happily ever. No, that was fantastic. You said you didn't think that. I mean, you got most of those details in there. That was, yeah, that was great. All right, this will be our last talking thing before we do just the kind of evaluation you've done before, the test you've done, I think, three times now? Yeah, in various forms. So this is going to be a little bit different. Tell me how you would make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. Get bread. Get the peanut butter and jar and jelly jar. And get the knife and spread on the peanut butter and get a spoon. Dig out the jelly and spoon it on the bread and eat it. Sounds about right. I like your distinction between the knife for the peanut butter and the spoon for the jelly. I can tell that comes from a specific experience. That's right. I'm just going to ask you some questions in their yes or no answers. So, let's see. Okay. Am I wearing black pants? I guess. Yes. I didn't think it was fair to ask about my shirt when this sweater is a lot of colors. That would be kind of confusing. Okay. Are you wearing a green shirt? No. Do you brush your teeth with a comb? No. Are babies named by parents? Yes. Do you take pictures with a camera? Yes. If you're about to finish, have you finished yet? I guess. I don't know. Are people taxed by governments? The what? Are people taxed by governments? Yes. If you're about to go inside, are you still outside? Yes. Are wolves attacked by deer? No. If he was at the show when you arrived, did he get there first? Read it to me again. Yeah, sure. If he was at the show when you arrived, did he get there first? Yeah, I think. Are thieves robbed by victims? No. If I tell you I used to drink coffee, do you think I drink coffee now? I don't really... If I tell you I used to drink coffee, do you think I drink coffee now? Probably no. Yeah? That's great. Okay. So I'm going to have you do some writing next. I know we were talking about that this is hard, but just do your best. So just write whatever you see here on that line there. There's a chair, but I can't know how to spell it. That's okay. Yeah, it's a tricky one. I can't spell escalator. Okay. It's okay. Just do your best with whatever you can come up with, and I can show you later also. Then that one if you can write try to write a sentence if you can Yeah. See, that's fantastic. I know that certain things are hard, obviously, but you got that super quickly. You got a whole sentence pretty instantly. So give yourself a little bit of credit with that, too. Yeah, so, yeah, escalator is like that. Just for, yeah. Okay. Yeah. It's a long one, and it's a tricky one. Okay. So... With this one, I'm going to have you repeat after me, like that therapist had me repeat silly things. I'm going to have you repeat some silly things. I apologize. Okay. So, head? Head. Brother Brother Proximity Proximity Inconceivable Inconceivable The baby drinks from a bottle The baby drinks from the bottle The confident vocalist realized where we'd be staying A confident vocalist. No. I can try repeating it one more time. The confident vocalist realized where we'd be staying. A confident vocalist somewhere. be staying anywhere. Yeah. Yeah. Great. Okay. Okay. So I've got some pictures here and I'm just going to have you point to them. So show me the elephant. Yeah. I'll put this in your reach. That's probably a little more fair. Okay. Show me the piano. Show me the camel. Show me the trumpet. Yeah. And violin. A couple more. Okay. So, show me the cat. Show me the box. Show me the cane. Show me the socks. Yeah. Okay. So, next I'll have you just tell me what these things are. So, what is this? Bed. What is this? Flower. Mushroom. Harmonica. Stork. stethoscope yeah that's great okay so we did writing okay more pictures it's gonna be a lot of pictures in a row now okay so Show me the lion. Show me the drum. Show me the violin. Show me the giraffe. Just one more set. Show me the bone. Show me the kite. Show me the boot. And show me the goat. Yeah. Okay. So, a couple more yes-no questions. Are you a man? Yes Am I a man? No Do you cut the grass with an axe? No Are babies watched by babysitters? Yes Do you open your door with a key? Yes If you're about to leave, have you left yet? No Yes. No. No. Yes. No. Are cats chased by mice? No. Well... Two-sided question. Yeah, very fair. Tom and Jerry? I was about to say, Tom and Jerry definitely is the other way around. Or both ways, really. Yeah. We get that. There's one question we sometimes ask, which is, are parents raised by children? And we get some two-sided answers with that sometimes, too. Well, the parents raise the children, but the children end up raising the parents. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yep, that's kind of how most people think about it usually. Yeah. All right. They're reading out loud, yeah. Mm-hmm. Should I try to scroll the cover for timing? Oh, I think it's okay. Okay. So go ahead and just read these out loud. Pot, cough, prohibition, uncomfortable, the dog sleeps on the floor, the ethical accountant understood why I've been... hiding yeah that was awesome well okay that one's a weird one too so okay so next i'm gonna show you there's gonna be pictures and a word in the middle and then just show me the picture that matches the word in the middle guitar Tiger. Zebra. Yeah. Saxophone. Pear. Crown. Sure. Yeah. All right. So I'll double check since it went a little bit out of order. Make sure I've got everything. But then I have one more thing for you here. Yeah. Okay. So... Next, I'm going to have you do stuff that I'm sure you've done in the past as well, where you just kind of show me your movement and how that's going. So, I know it's also a bit goofy, so I'm sorry. If you could stick your tongue out and move it from side to side.